" STOP ELECTING LIFE PEERS " By TREVOR WILLIAMS 
A MOVE to stop Mr. Gaitskell from nominating any more Labour life Peers is to be made at a meeting of Labour M Ps tomorrow . 
Mr. Michael Foot has put down a resolution on the subject and he is to be backed by Mr. Will Griffiths , M P for Manchester Exchange . 
Though they may gather some Left-wing support , a large majority of Labour M Ps are likely to turn down the Foot-Griffiths resolution . 
" ABOLISH LORDS " 
Mr. Foot 's line will be that as Labour M Ps opposed the Government Bill which brought life peers into existence , they should not now put forward nominees . 
He believes that the House of Lords should be abolished and that Labour should not take any steps which would appear to " prop up " an out-dated institution . 
Since 1958 , 13 Labour life Peers and Peeresses have been created . 
Most Labour sentiment would still favour the abolition of the House of Lords , but while it remains Labour has to have an adequate number of members . 
AFRICANS DROP RIVALRY TO FIGHT SIR ROY By DENNIS NEWSON 
THE two rival African Nationalist Parties of Northern Rhodesia have agreed to get together to face the challenge from Sir Roy Welensky , the Federal Premier . 
Delegates from Mr. Kenneth Kaunda 's United National Independence Party ( 280,000 members ) and Mr. Harry Nkumbula 's African National Congress ( 400,000 ) will meet in London today to discuss a common course of action . 
Sir Roy is violently opposed to Africans getting an elected majority in Northern Rhodesia , but the Colonial Secretary , Mr. Iain Macleod , is insisting on a policy of change . 
Sir Roy 's United Federal Party is boycotting the London talks on the Protectorate 's future . 
Said Mr. Nkumbula last night : " We want to discuss what to do if the British Government gives in to Sir Roy and the talks fall through . 
There are bound to be demonstrations . " 
All revealed 
Yesterday Sir Roy 's chief aide , Mr. Julius Greenfield , telephoned his chief a report on his talks with Mr. Macmillan at Chequers . 
Mr. Macleod went on with the conference at Lancaster House despite the crisis which had blown up . 
He has now revealed his full plans to the Africans and Liberals attending . 
These plans do not give the Africans the overall majority they are seeking . 
African delegates are studying them today . 
The conference will meet to discuss the function of a proposed House of Chiefs . 
No secret talks — Macleod By HUGH PILCHER 
MR . 
IAIN MACLEOD , the Colonial Secretary , denied in the Commons last night that there have been secret negotiations on Northern Rhodesia 's future . 
The Northern Rhodesia conference in London has been boycotted by the two main settlers ' parties — the United Federal Party and the Dominion Party . 
But representatives of Sir Roy Welensky , Prime Minister of the Central African Federation , went to Chequers at the week-end for talks with Mr. Macmillan . 
Northern Rhodesia is a member of the Federation . 
Mr. Macleod was not at the week-end meeting . 
But he told M Ps yesterday : " I have no knowledge of secret negotiations . " 
He said Britain had an obligation to consult the Federal Government . 
But the final decision remained with the British Government . 
Mr. James Callaghan , Labour 's Colonial spokesman , said Sir Roy had no right to delay progress in the talks by refusing to sit round the conference table . 
Mr. Macleod thought the two Rhodesian parties had refused to attend the talks because Sir Roy had found messages sent from the Government were "unsatisfactory . " 
African delegates to the talks yesterday called on Mr. Macmillan to cease his negotiations with Sir Roy 's representative , Mr. Julius Greenfield . 
He was at Chequers last week-end . 
They said they regarded with " growing anger " the " gross and unconstitutional " interference by Sir Roy 's Federal Government in the talks . 
Informal talks at Lancaster House will resume today . 
DEEP SOUTH SMEARS JACK 'S NEGRO 
PRESIDENT KENNEDY today defended the appointment of a Negro as his Housing Minister . 
It has aroused strong opposition from the anti-Negro senators of the Deep South . 
The negro is Mr. Robert Weaver of New York . 
One of his tasks will be to see there is no racial discrimination in Government and State housing projects . 
Senator Allen Ellender , of Louisiana , sparked off the opposition by telling a television audience it was " current Washington gossip " that Weaver once had Communist affiliations . 
A letter 
The Senate Banking Committee , which is headed by another Southern Senator — Willis Robertson , of Virginia — met today in closed session to discuss Weaver 's appointment . 
Senator Robertson later disclosed he had sent a letter to Mr. Kennedy saying he had received several complaints about Weaver 's loyalty . 
He said these concerned Mr. Weaver 's alleged association with organisations black-listed by the Government . 
Immediately Mr. Kennedy rushed a letter to Senator Robertson saying the Federal Bureau of Investigation had reported on Mr. Weaver . 
He believed he would perform " outstanding service " in his post . 
Senator Robertson 's committee has to pass Mr. Weaver 's nomination before it can be considered by the full Senate . 
Gold-hunting Kennedy shocks Dr. A GERMANY MUST PAY Offer of £357m is too small 
PRESIDENT KENNEDY is ready to get tough over West Germany 's cash offer to help America 's balance of payments position . 
He said bluntly in Washington yesterday that the offer — £357million — was not good enough . 
And he indicated that his Government would try to get Germany to pay more . 
He did not mention personal talks with Dr. Adenauer , the West German Chancellor . 
But he said discussions " on a higher level than in the past " might be useful . 
The President will probably discuss the problem with Dr. Brentano , the West German Foreign Minister , who is due in Washington next week . 
A big slice of Germany 's " aid " is the early payment of a £210million debt to America . 
United States officials quickly point out that this is money due to America anyway . 
And they are unimpressed by the Germans ' claim that they can not pay more than £357million without upsetting their own economy . 
The Americans say Germany is having it too good and is not paying for the past or for the present . 
Tough spot 
The Adenauer Government flatly rejected attempts by the Eisenhower Government to get them to pay a regular sum towards the cost of keeping American troops in Germany . 
These support costs are a big drain on America 's dollar reserves . 
Dr. Adenauer 's answer is the once-and-for-all cash offer of £357million . 
President Kennedy 's rejection of it is a painful blow to the West German Government . 
It will now have to pay more — and increase taxation to do so — or run the obvious risks in upsetting the new American administration . 
And , since this is election year in West Germany , Dr. Adenauer is in a tough spot . 
Waiting 
Joyce Egginton cables : President Kennedy at his Washington Press conference admitted he did not know whether America was lagging behind Russia in missile power . 
He said he was waiting for his senior military aides to come up with the answer on February 20 . 
This surprising statement was a sharp about-face from his warnings during the Presidential election campaign . 
He claimed slackness in the Eisenhower Administration had caused America to lag behind Russia in nuclear development . 
President Kennedy did his best to avoid giving Pressmen a direct answer . 
HORRIFIED That 's a Tory doctor 's reaction to the new health charges , says George Brown " PROBE THE DRUG PROFITS AND DO N'T TAKE IT OUT OF MOTHERS AND CHILDREN " By HUGH PILCHER 
TWO men who are poles apart in personality last night dominated Parliament 's fiercest battle since the 1959 election — Mr. George Brown and Mr. Enoch Powell , the Health Minister . 
Mr. Brown , passionate and warm-hearted , led Labour 's attack on the higher health charges . 
Mr. Powell , white-faced and outwardly unemotional , replied with a statistical statement — and ended by inciting Labour M Ps to angry uproar . 
One dealt with the human issue behind the Health Service ; the other tried to show that the balance-sheet must always come first . 
The result of the vote was not in doubt . 
For the Tories were massed in answer to their whips to defeat a censure motion on the Government for "undermining the Health Service " and placing heavy burdens on those least able to bear them . 
Mr. Brown declared that the policy under censure was monstrous . 
It had offended many people far beyond the ranks of Labour supporters . 
The Press , many doctors and public were denouncing the proposals . 
THE LETTER 
He quoted from this letter which Mr. Gaitskell had received : 
" My background is a doctor of 68 , who has practised medicine for 43 years , chiefly as a panel doctor . 
" I am a lifelong Conservative . 
I am horrified and amazed by my party 's proposal to prostitute the whole principle of the State service and to render that service a hardship to poor people . 
" After a lifetime of helping others and healing the sick , my considered opinion is that anybody supporting the increased charges is a wicked , old — . " 
Mr. Brown went on : " We are dealing with a noble edifice which needs an imaginative architect to improve it , but it has got a quantity surveyor . 
We have descended from the real problems to fiddling about with bills of cost . 
" We believe that a comprehensive medical service , free to the patient at the point of need and with one standard for all sick people , is good and attainable . 
" DIFFERENT 
"We remain for it . 
But the Tories never were . " 
Interrupted by angry Tories , Mr. Brown retorted : " The jackals bay when there is nothing better they can do . " 
He told them that their conception of social services was wholly different — fundamentally different from that of Labour . 
They would provide an ambulance service for the absolutely wretched — but it would not be too comfortable nor too easy to get . 
Answering jeers that it was Labour which first put a ceiling on health spending and started charges , Mr. Brown reminded the hostile Government benches that was done in 1950 because of the financial strain of the Korean war . 
In fact , the Tories made it worse now for the sick and needy than Labour had to make it in 1950 . 
And as a percentage of social service expenditure , health had fallen from 28.5 to 23.1 per cent . 
Then Mr. Brown swung his attack directly to the unsmiling Mr. Powell . 
He demanded that instead of taking it out of the patients Mr. Powell should take ruthless action against the drug making industry , whose profits had risen by up to 400 per cent . 
in the last eight years . 
" Mr. Powell finds it easier to take it out of mothers , children and sick people than to take on this vast industry , " Mr. Brown commented icily . 
" Let us have a full inquiry into the cost of drugs and the pharmaceutical industry . " 
The health of children today owed much to the welfare food scheme . 
It was maintained during the war . 
Now in conditions of Tory affluence it seemed it could not be carried on . 
When Mr. Brown sat down Labour M Ps cheered for a full minute — and even his bitterest opponents on defence joined in . 
THE CHOICE 
Mr. Powell devoted half his speech to giving details of plans for improving the hospital service , on which indeed the Government is making progress . 
His basic defence of the Health Service cuts was that " even after the proposed changes the net cost of the service to the Exchequer will have increased over three years by 20 per cent . 
" That can not continue without either development being limited or an adjustment being made in financing . " 
The Government decided to adjust the financing — which Mr. Powell claimed was underpinning — not undermining — the service . 
Answering the attack on " economic charges " for welfare foods , Mr. Powell said that all these foods would still be free in families receiving regular National Assistance grants . 
Of the doubled prescription charge his argument was : " It is ludicrous exaggeration to say that by and large a 2s. charge is any more of a burden than a 1s. charge was in 1949 . " 
"RESIGN " 
Uproar from the Labour side grew as Mr. Powell made more and more claims with which M Ps disagreed . 
MAC PICKS HIS MARKET TEAM Our man in Paris is No 1 aide to Heath By JOHN DICKIE 
MR . 
MACMILLAN has picked a strong " brains trust " team to negotiate terms for joining the Common Market . 
And he has abandoned plans to visit President de Gaulle this month to smooth the way . 
General de Gaulle 's official welcome last week to Britain 's moves towards the Six was taken as a friendly gesture in Whitehall , but no more than that . 
So the idea of a personal mission by the Prime Minister to Paris was dropped . 
Instead Mr. Macmillan will rely on a hand-picked team under the leadership of Sir Pierson Dixon , Britain 's Ambassador to France , to back Mr. Edward Heath , Lord Privy Seal , who is charged with the conduct of negotiations with the Six . 
In touch 
At the same time the Prime Minister has offered Commonwealth Governments every facility possible to safeguard their interests . 
Seven Commonwealth countries have told Mr. Sandys , Commonwealth Relations Secretary , that they wish to be kept in touch in London . 
Three of them — Canada , Australia , and New Zealand — will have strong delegations at an opening meeting in London on Monday . 
Once the Common Market 's Council of Ministers draws up the procedure for negotiations in a fortnight 's time , these Commonwealth countries can arrange for observers to advise the British negotiating team . 
The team is composed of experienced negotiators in several fields . 
Sir Pierson Dixon has a wide reputation as a skilful backstage negotiator since his days as Britain 's chief UN delegate . 
The team 
Second in command is Mr. Eric Roll , 53-year-old Deputy Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture , Food , and Fisheries . 
The Foreign Office is represented by Sir Roderick Barclay , who has taken part in all the detailed Common Market exchanges over the past year with the French , Germans , and Italians . 
Other leading members are : Sir Henry Lintott from the Commonwealth Relations Office , Sir William Corell-Barnes ( Colonial Office ) , Mr. G. R. Bell ( Treasury ) , and Mr. G. H. Andrew ( Board of Trade ) . 
They will accompany Mr. Heath next month when he goes to Brussels , headquarters of the Common Market Commission , or wherever the Six decide negotiations should be held . 
Some of the problems were reviewed yesterday at a meeting in Paris between M. Couve de Murville , French Foreign Minister , and Mr. Heath . 
Selwyn in strikeland From WILLIAM FORREST ACCRA , Monday 
MR . 
Selwyn Lloyd — a man with troubles enough back home — seems fated to fly into trouble abroad . 
Last year it was the riots in Istanbul , which enlivened the NATO Council meeting . 
Now we have the strikes and demonstrations in Ghana coinciding with the meeting of the Commonwealth Economic Consultative Council — the first to be held in Africa . 
Only a few hours after Mr Lloyd and his 24-strong delegation landed at Accra this morning , hundreds of shop assistants demonstrated outside the British-owned Kingsway Stores , the largest in town . 
The stores had been hit by the same strike wave that has paralysed the port of Takoradi for the past week . 
Root of the discontent : The austerity Budget , including a compulsory savings scheme which the Ghana Government introduced in July . 
Ghana 's strong man is not here to face the storm . 
President Nkrumah , having made his contribution to the neutrals ' conference in Belgrade , has resumed his holiday on the Black Sea and no one here professes to know when he will return . 
But in his absence his chief lieutenants have not let him down . 
The strong arm of authority has been raised against the strikers and is now beginning to tell . 
Today 's Ghanaian Times ( motto : " The welfare of the people is the supreme law " ) reports : " The Government has been urged to take immediate action to deal ruthlessly with the strikers . " 
The urge came from a conference of activists of Nkrumah 's Convention Party " after powerful addresses by Comrades Krobo Edusei , Tawia Adamafio , " and others . 
Ultimatum 
Strong deeds followed strong words . 
In Takoradi a " limited state of emergency " was declared , giving the Government adequate power to maintain all essential services and ensure food supplies . 
Thus it becomes an offence punishable with imprisonment for anyone who " publishes a report likely to cause alarm or prejudicial to public safety . " 
And up to ten years ' imprisonment can be imposed on anyone convicted of sabotage . 
These stern measures had the desired effect today at Kumasi where the strikers gave in , but in Takoradi , the chief storm centre , they are still holding out despite the presence of 1,400 police and 16 armoured cars . 
And how did the Government react when the strikers demonstrated in Accra ? 
At 9.40 Mr. Edusei , Minister of Transport and probably the toughest man in Mr. Nkrumah 's team , drove up to the Kingsway Stores and faced the demonstrators , most of them shopgirls in overalls . 
" If you have not dispersed by ten o'clock , " he told them , " the police will act . " 
At five to ten a posse of police arrived and in less than two minutes the crowd had gone . 
If the threatened " counter-revolution " was not enough to bring the President back from his travels it might have been thought that the muster from the 13 States of the Commonwealth was an occasion worthy of his presence . 
After all it was Mr. Nkrumah who suggested that this year the Economic Consultative Council should meet in Accra . 
It has been left , however , to Mr. Goka , Ghana 's Finance Minister , to do the honours as host , in which capacity he held a reception tonight in Accra 's Ambassador Hotel . 
PHONE TAPS Disarmers accuse the Cabinet 
POLICE , on direct orders from the Cabinet , are openly intimidating members of Earl Russell 's nuclear-disarming Committee of 100 , the Committee claimed yesterday . 
It said pressure was being put on members and associates all over the country . 
It alleged : 
Phones were being tapped and going out of action ; 
Police were visiting people " on no pretext whatsoever , except to pass the time of day " ; 
Supporters had been warned — one that his connection with the committee was going too far ; another that anti-apartheid agitation was all right , but support for the committee was not . 
A third man 's house was watched for four days by plain-clothes men . 
Committee-member Mr. George Clark commented at a Press conference : " The most extraordinary things are happening . " 
Fifty committee members will appear at Bow-street today , including Lord Russell , Lady Russell , Lord Boyd-Orr , the Rev. Michael Scott , and Mr. Clark . 
A " plant " 
They are required to show why they should not be bound over for disturbing the peace and for inciting a breach of the peace . 
The summonses say they are " likely to persevere in such unlawful conduct . " 
Lord Russell , 89 , was putting his affairs in order , and packing a case , at his Chelsea home yesterday . 
His secretary , American-born Mr. Ralph Schoenman , said : " He is not going to agree to be bound over . 
That will probably mean jail and , though frail , he is very fit and will take the rigours of prison in his stride . 
He hopes to be allowed to do some writing . " 
Back at the Press conference , Mr. Clark said two committee members tried a " plant " call on a suspect phone . 
They discussed a sit-down at Watford at 5.30 p.m. — none was planned but police turned up . 
Sir Roy attacks Kaunda 's " vicious monster " From HARVEY WARD Salisbury , Monday 
SIR Roy Welensky said today that he no longer accepted the good faith of Mr. Kenneth Kaunda . 
Sir Roy , Federal Rhodesian Prime Minister , said that Mr. Kaunda 's United National Independence Party was a monster as vicious as the Zambia National Congress , which was led by Mr. Kaunda until he was outlawed in 1959 . 
The record of lawlessness among UNIP supporters went back a long way , Sir Roy told the Federal Parliament in Salisbury . 
He cited cases in which hundreds of UNIP supporters had been arrested or convicted since last year on charges of creating disturbances . 
Convicted 
During the first three weeks of the present trouble 287 incidents had been reported in Northern Rhodesia . 
More than 500 people — 167 of them members of the UNIP — were convicted last month in the Northern Province alone . 
" Against this background must be taken Mr. Kaunda 's repeated statements that all he is doing is in the name of non-violence , " said Sir Roy . 
" I am now compelled to say that I do n't accept his good faith . " 
He said Mr. Kaunda must know that his statements had stimulated violence , but he had done nothing to stop it . 
" It is true he made a point of again being absent from Northern Rhodesia when his followers have indulged in such violence . " 
But Sir Roy pointed out that a few months ago Mr. Kaunda said that if UNIP did not get its way what would happen would make the Mau Mau in Kenya " seem like a child 's picnic . " 
JOHN DICKIE writes : Mr. Macmillan gave top priority to the clash over Northern Rhodesia on his return from Scotland yesterday . 
He summoned Mr. Iain Macleod , Colonial Secretary , and Mr. Duncan Sandys , Commonwealth Relations Secretary for an hour 's talks at Admiralty House . 
A statement is expected today to hold the door open for modifications to the new Constitution provided law and order is maintained in Northern Rhodesia . 
Its terms have set the Prime Minister an exacting problem . 
Mr. Sandys has warned of the risk of a strong reaction from Sir Roy Welensky to any suggestion that there may be fresh concessions to the African nationalists . 
Mr. Macleod has ample evidence from talks with Sir John Moffat , Northern Rhodesian Liberal leader , and Mr. Kaunda , that the bulk of moderates and Africans will reject the Constitution unless it is modified . 
IN AFRICA A CLASH : IN LONDON A WELCOME 
A ROYAL welcome for the Kabaka of Buganda ( King Freddie ) from Princess Elizabeth Bagaya of Toro , kneeling at the foot of his airliner 's steps at London Airport yesterday . 
Forty other Africans greeted him , kneeling with heads bowed . 
The princess , aged 24 , is now studying history at Cambridge , where she is a friend of Prince William of Gloucester . 
King Freddie and three other hereditary rulers of native kingdoms in Uganda arrived for talks with Colonial Secretary Mr. Iain Macleod , before the Uganda Constitutional conference opens next Monday . 
The question : Their status in an independent Uganda . 
The thorniest problem for next week 's conference is to settle the relationships between them and the rest of the country . 
A Government report has recognised their rights and recommended a form of federal association , but the four kings are not committing themselves and not attending the actual conference , although Buganda politicians have agreed to do so at the last minute . 
Instead , the kings will remain in London and wait to hear the conference 's proposals . 
Then their views will be transmitted back . 
Russell jailed but ban-the-bomb fight goes on RAB CRACKS DOWN 750 extra police will bar Sunday squatters By Daily Mail Reporter 
MR . 
BUTLER , the Home Secretary , has decided to meet head-on the biggest challenge to Government authority yet presented by the " Ban-the-Bomb " demonstrators . 
Police leave has been cancelled and secret plans prepared to deal with the mass sit-down rally planned for Sunday in Parliament-square by the Committee of 100 , the anti-nuclear arms group . 
It was Mr. Butler who authorised action which ended yesterday in 32 members of the Committee of 100 being imprisoned for inciting a breach of the peace . 
The committee 's president 89-year-old Earl Russell and his 61-year-old wife were each jailed for a week . 
Playwrights Arnold Wesker ( The Kitchen ) and Robert Bolt ( The Flowering Cherry ) were jailed for a month . 
Measures 
The possibility that the Government might invoke the Public Order Act , 1936 , and declare the whole rally illegal — whether the demonstrators sit down or not — was being discussed in Whitehall last night . 
It was last used a year ago , to deal with the St. Pancras rent riots . 
Today Mr. Butler will have talks with Police Commissioner Sir Joseph Simpson to draw up final plans for the " Battle of Parliament Square . " 
Measures agreed so far include : 
1 . 
A mass call-out of police , special constables and reserves , with 750 policemen posted from outlying districts to stations in the area — West End Central , Bow-street , and Cannon-row . 
MR . 
TOURE IN ZAGREB PRES . 
TITO 'S POLICY FOR NEUTRALISM FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT VIENNA , Jan. 9 
President Tito and Mr. Se2kou Toure2 arrived today in Zagreb , where crowds of people welcomed the Yugoslav leader 's guest , who is celebrating his thirty-ninth birthday there . 
The state visit of the President of Guinea is evidently regarded by the Yugoslav leader as an emphasis on Yugoslavia 's affinity with Asian and African countries and , moreover , an opportunity to underline his support for anti-colonial movements . 
Coming as it did , soon after the conference at Casablanca , the Yugoslav press has written much on the significance of the meeting of leaders of Africa , placing particular stress on the urgency to settle the Congolese and Algerian problems and condemning the " intervention of colonial and neo-colonial " Powers . 
Mr. Se2kou Toure2 's stay in Yugoslavia is one in the series of forthcoming visits of neutralist leaders from those continents , and President Tito has already indicated that soon he is to travel to some of those countries . 
Today , for example , the Foreign Minister of Indonesia arrived in Belgrade as the guest of the Yugoslav Foreign Minister . 
CONFERENCE FAVOURED 
In fact such Yugoslav activity has been particularly intensified in the past year or so and though so far , apart from joint action in the United Nations , these exchanges have not been seen on any wider basis , President Tito is known for some time to have favoured a conference of neutralist leaders . 
The wish was particularly apparent in comments on the occasion of the conference in Casablanca and , in particular , in Yugoslav approval of the idea of an inter-African consultative assembly which would coordinate activity on the political and economic sphere ; and it is not difficult to see that President Tito would like some such idea extended also to the whole uncommitted world . 
But he now feels , in view of a changed international situation and especially in view of fresh problems facing the new and independent countries of Africa , that the time is ripe to have more frequent consultations between the uncommitted countries and even to work out common stands on various problems facing those nations . 
Two subjects , the Congo and Algeria , are the main topics of the talks in Belgrade — and on both the two leaders have identical ideas . 
LAOS INVITATION TO PRINCE SOUVANNA REQUEST TO RETURN FROM OUR CORRESPONDENT SAIGON , Jan. 9 
Two emissaries from the Laotian Government of Prince Boun Oum have arrived in Phnom Penh , Cambodia , to invite Prince Souvanna Phouma , the former Prime Minister , to return to Laos . 
No details of their mission have been disclosed , but it was reported earlier in Laos that Prince Boun Oum was considering asking Prince Souvanna Phouma to join his Government . 
Prince Souvanna Phouma has not yet replied to the mission , but recent statements made by him in Phnom Penh indicate that he still regards himself as the only legal Prime Minister of Laos . 
His policy of strict neutrality from 1951 to 1958 kept the kingdom in peace , though at the cost of virtual partition of the country into the pro-communist north and the pro-western centre and south . 
" LEGAL GOVERNMENT " 
Prince Souvanna 's former Minister of Information , Mr. Quinim Pholsena , who claims to be his representative in Laos , yesterday addressed all officers of the pro-communist forces occupying the province of Xieng Khouang and emphasized that Prince Souvanna 's Government was the only legal one in the country . 
Prince Souphannouvong , leader of the pro-communist Neo Lao Haksat Party , also spoke to the officers in the same terms . 
This emphasis on the legality of the former Government suggests that all is not well with the political and military leadership of the pro-communists . 
Most of the province of Xieng Khouang and the tactically useful Plain of Jars , however , appear still to be firmly in their hands . 
The Government has claimed the recapture of Vang Vieng , the pro-communists ' former base 60 miles north of Vientiane , but this claim had been made before the end of last month . 
A correspondent who travelled yesterday to within a few miles of Vang Vieng was told by officers that this village was still held by the pro-communists . 
NEW IMAGE OF LIBERAL PARTY LEADER FOR CANADIANS From Our Own Correspondent OTTAWA 
With the Prime Minister sunning himself in Jamaica and his Cabinet out in the grass roots making 160 speeches in 80 constituencies in 10 days , the Liberal Party are holding a national conference here with some 2,000 delegates , the biggest gathering since 1958 when Mr. Lester Pearson was chosen as party leader . 
In some ways it will be a testing occasion for him , although some think his position unassailable simply because there is no one else in sight to supplant him . 
So the conference will concentrate on laying the foundations on which to win the next election . 
CONSERVATIVE STOCK LOW 
The rally comes at a time when in spite of carefully worded statements by the Prime Minister there is an air of electoral expectancy . 
Members of the Cabinet are basing their speeches on a new Conservative booklet called The Record Speaks which outlines in some detail the accomplishments of the party since it came to office three and a half years ago . 
Nevertheless there is little illusion in the Conservative Party that their stock at home has fallen in the face of heavy unemployment and an uncertain economy . 
Last year saw the defeat of two Conservative provincial governments , Quebec and New Brunswick , and in the four federal by-elections last October the party fared badly . 
They are now faced with four other by-elections , one at Esquimalt Saanich , British Columbia , one in Leeds , Ontario , and the other two in the Maritimes — Restigouche Madawaska , New Brunswick , and Kings , Prince Edward Island . 
All four were Conservative strongholds . 
Last September a public poll showed that for the first time since the Administration came to power in 1957 the Liberals were ahead ( 43 per cent were in favour of " The Grits " if a federal election had been held last autumn , 38 per cent for the Conservatives and 12 per cent for the C.C.F. ) . 
However , a separate poll revealed that Mr. Diefenbaker was still ahead in terms of popularity as an individual leader ( for Mr. Diefenbaker 36 per cent , for Mr. Pearson 34 per cent ) . 
How far is Mr. Lester Pearson acceptable to the people of Canada as a Prime Minister ? 
Many observers at the national rally will be seeking an answer . 
It is difficult for many to see Mr. Pearson in the role of a popular orator at the hustings , the spellbinder that Mr. Diefenbaker was in the last two campaigns . 
The impression remains that the Liberal leader is still the diplomatist , more at home in the chancery , or the corridors of the United Nations , not the father figure , so necessary in Canadian leadership , or the practical politician , able to talk about sewage problems in Algoma East . 
On the other hand , Mr. Pearson excels in meeting people informally , but many still regard him " as some sort of cross between an egghead and a missionary " . 
BOW TIE GONE 
His party advisers are now trying to correct that image . 
The bow tie has gone ; he is having lessons on television techniques and is being coached by speech experts . 
Everything is being done to promote a new image . 
Certainly , he is now a much tougher character politically than when he took over the leadership . 
He was mercilessly trounced by Mr. Diefenbaker in the House in those early days . 
It has been a hard road back but now , with plenty of political ammunition given him by the Government in recent sessions , he is leading the Opposition with skill and assurance and is a match for the Prime Minister across the floor . 
Mr. Pearson is now talking about " his new and dynamic liberalism " and this week will show perhaps how far " Mike " will go . 
The main topic under review is unemployment , but there will be 21 committees examining subjects ranging from foreign investment in Canada to the problems of the Atlantic provinces . 
However , be this election year or not , Mr. Pearson , with his party increasingly confident of return to power , must convey to the nation that he has the stamp of a Prime Minister of Canada . 
BONN DOUBTS ON EUROPEAN SPACE PROJECT MR . 
THORNEYCROFT 'S TASK TO REMOVE SCEPTICISM From Our Own Correspondent BONN , Jan. 9 
Mr. Thorneycroft , the Minister of Aviation , who arrives in Bonn tomorrow for talks with the Federal Government on a European space satellite project , will find the Germans interested in the principle of space research , but rather sceptical about British plans for organizing it . 
Stated more bluntly , they are still unconvinced that this is not primarily an effort on Britain 's part to salve Blue Streak , which was abandoned last summer as a military project ; or that the new European space satellite is indeed to be purely scientific in character . 
Mr. Thorneycroft 's main purpose will be to remove these doubts , and to persuade the Federal Government that the financial burden involved is really worth while , at a time when any increase in budgetary commitments would almost certainly involve a corresponding rise in taxation — something no one is prepared to contemplate in an election year . 
DUPLICATED EFFORT 
The cost of the European satellite project is estimated to be at least £60m. spread over five years . 
A Foreign Ministry spokesman said today that west Germany , mainly for budgetary reasons , had not signed a resolution adopted at an international conference in Geneva last December , which called for the drawing up of a European convention on a space satellite project . 
But , at the same time , there is reason to believe that the Federal Government is not convinced , on the basis of the information it has so far , that such a project would be justified from a scientific point of view ; and not merely constitute a " prestige " satellite , duplicating to some extent American efforts , as { Die Welt suggests today in a highly critical editorial article . 
On the specific question of the use of Blue Streak , Mr. Thorneycroft 's task will be easier . 
He can point out that this is the only rocket and launcher in Europe to have reached a sufficient stage of development for adaptation as the first stage in putting a heavy satellite into outer space . 
There has also been some talk of adopting another British rocket , Black Knight , for the second stage , but the French have one of their own called Veronique which they would like to see used . 
MISSILE FEARS 
Perhaps one of the main reasons for German misgivings is the fear that the French may not be especially interested in scientific research as such , but more anxious to develop something which could carry an atomic warhead of their own manufacture . 
The Federal Government has made it clear that it would have no part in any project for the development of long-range missiles — which in any case would contravene the provisions of the Brussels treaty . 
The Foreign Ministry spokesman added today , however , that the Brussels Treaty was irrelevant , because research on the various rocket stages had already been concluded , and only cooperation on the type of capsule was involved . 
A lesser obstacle to German participation is the absence of any Ministry or Minister directly responsible for it — and therefore of any budget under which funds could be appropriated . 
Meanwhile , Professor Eugen Sa " nger , chairman of the German Society for Rocket and Space Travel , has arrived in London as a representative of the Federal Government , together with experts from other countries , to study Blue Streak . 
He will be taking part in an international conference on the space project which will meet on January 30 in London . 
OTHER VENTURES 
During his two-day stay in Bonn , Mr. Thorneycroft will also have talks with Herr Strauss , the Minister of Defence , Professor Erhard , the Minister of Economics , Herr von Brentano , the Foreign Minister , and Dr. Seebohm , the Transport Minister . 
He will discuss various plans for joint research and development of military items , and in particular , it is understood , a vertical take-off fighter aircraft . 
This is expected eventually to replace the Fiat G-91 , and the F 104 Starfighter , the backbone of the German Air Force . 
MAC GIVEN HIS ORDERS Must join Common Market , says Kennedy Daily Worker Reporters 
PRESIDENT KENNEDY renewed his pressure on Mr. Harold Macmillan to join the Common Market during their talks at Admiralty House , Whitehall , yesterday . 
Much of their three hours , 20 minutes of discussion is believed to have been devoted to this main point of American policy . 
It arose during talks following President Kennedy 's report to the British Prime Minister of the outcome of his recent visit to Paris . 
There General de Gaulle had made clear that he would accept Britain into the Common Market only if there were no conditions laid down to meet the Commonwealth and other reservations . 
Mr. Kennedy told Mr. Macmillan that he still wanted him to apply for membership of the Common Market , even if it meant an unconditional surrender . 
LAOS , BERLIN 
There were also brief discussions on Laos , Berlin and other foreign questions , after Mr. Kennedy had informed Mr. Macmillan of his discussions with Mr. Krushchov . 
With the exception of 40 minutes when Lord Home , Foreign Secretary , and Mr. McGeorge Bundy , the President 's special assistant for security affairs , were brought in , the two men talked alone . 
An attempt to get more information about the Admiralty House meeting will be made in the House of Commons this afternoon . 
Labour M.P.s already have many questions to the Prime Minister asking for a statement . 
President Kennedy flew from London Airport last night to arrive in Washington this morning . 
He is to make a 30-minute nation-wide broadcast and television report on his talks with Mr. Krushchov this evening . 
COMMUNIQUE 
The joint communique on Mr. Kennedy 's and Mr. Macmillan 's third talks — the first were at Key West , Florida , the second in Washington — said : 
" Their discussions covered the major problems , both economic and political , and revealed once again the close agreement of the two Governments in pursuing their common purposes . 
" Occasion was given to review the need for economic co-operation and expansion in the general interests of developed and underdeveloped countries alike . " 
It said that the President and Premier noted " with satisfaction " the agreement in Vienna on the need for an effective Laos ceasefire , which should lead to progress toward a Laos agreement at the Geneva conference . 
" Particular attention was also given to the nuclear tests conference and to the question of disarmament . 
" The situation in regard to Germany was reviewed , and there was full agreement on the necessity of maintaining the rights and obligations of the allied Governments in Berlin . " 
Apart from their formal Admiralty House talks , followed by lunch given by Lady Dorothy Macmillan with Mrs. Kennedy and other guests present , Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Macmillan met three more times yesterday . 
PESSIMISTIC 
In PARIS , Mr. Dean Rusk , U.S. Secretary of State , gave a 90-minute briefing on the Vienna talks to the 15-nation Nato council . 
Some of his listeners said he was " rather pessimistic " and talked of a Berlin crisis later this year . 
From Nato headquarters Mr. Rusk went to see President de Gaulle and informed him of the Vienna outcome . 
Last night Mr. Rusk arrived in London in time to join the Buckingham Palace dinner and to fly home with the President . 
In DUESSELDORF , Chancellor Adenauer said the Vienna talks " might be the beginning of a slight improvement , " but no big changes should be expected in the political situation . 
MR K GETS HOME IN HIGH SPIRITS 
RELAXED , smiling and clearly in the best of spirits , Mr. Krushchov yesterday returned to Moscow after his two days of talks with President Kennedy , writes Dennis Ogden from Moscow . 
The good beginning made at Vienna must be followed up by new efforts for peace , the Soviet Communist Party newspaper Pravda declared yesterday . 
Events in Vienna " gave hope to people of goodwill who hate the cold war , and to all who are striving for a stable peace , " write the paper 's two correspondents from the Austrian capital . 
GOOD BEGINNING 
"Thinking over the results of the Vienna meeting , peace-loving people will say "a good beginning . " " 
Mr. Krushchov remained at the airport to join President Brezhnev in welcoming Dr. Sukarno , President and Prime Minister of Indonesia , who arrived by Boeing 707 jet on a state visit 40 minutes after Mr. Khrushchov had arrived from Vienna . 
A cheering , delighted crowd of Indonesian students broke through crash barriers to surround their President on the tarmac for several minutes , chanting his name and waving flowers . 
FAREWELL SPEECH 
In VIENNA , before flying off to Moscow , Mr. Khrushchov said he hoped his weekend talks with President Kennedy would help " to establish an enduring peace between nations . " 
Replying to a farewell speech from Austrian President Schaerf , the Soviet Premier thanked Austria for the hospitality and welcome he had received . 
" The Soviet Union has always striven and is striving to safeguard an enduring peace for the peoples , to secure an early solution of the disarmament problem , and to bring about a peaceful settlement of international disputes through negotiations , " he said . 
Gaitskell defends Polaris , Nato and himself From GEORGE SINFIELD HASTINGS , Monday 
MR . 
GAITSKELL today delivered a full-blooded defence of the Polaris missile base . 
And by implication he supported the establishment of sites in Britain for the training of German troops . 
His main theme was that nuclear weapons were necessary to defend Britain , that Britain must depend on Nato and " the West " must have nuclear weapons so long as the Soviet Union has them . 
Addressing the annual congress of the National Union of General and Municipal Workers , he said he felt sure the Labour movement was coming round in support of his views . 
Obviously conscious of the fierce and widespread resentment over the U.S. Polaris base in Britain , Mr. Gaitskell said that he even noticed that supporters of unilateral nuclear disarmament were changing their tactics by switching most of their emphasis on to the missile . 
Mr. Gaitskell said that a member of an alliance could not deny facilities to nations to which it was allied . 
But governments should be free to negotiate and refuse proposals with which they did not agree . 
Outdated Thor 
The Labour Party opposed Thor missiles , because , he said , they were out of date and vulnerable and would attract enemy action . 
That argument did not apply to the Polaris submarine . 
So long as the Soviet Union had nuclear weapons , the West , somewhere , must have them too . 
It was far better for a weapon used for retaliatory purposes to be under the sea rather than on land . 
This was why the Labour Party did not think it right to oppose the Polaris depot ship . 
The party agreed that it was unwise to locate the base in the Holy Loch , only 30 miles from Glasgow , a city with two million people . 
It should be sited in a more remote area . 
Mr. Gaitskell added that the Scarborough conference decisions did not , in his view , truly reflect the opinions of the majority of party members and still less the party 's supporters in the country . 
He was afraid lest the decisions would mean the labelling of the party at a future General Election that it did not " care about the defence and security of our country . " 
After saying that Mr. Khrushchov believed Russian power to retaliate had stopped a U.S. attack upon the Soviet Union , Mr. Gaitskell said that what stopped the Russians in the last resort from aggressive nuclear war was the certainty that they would be annihilated . 
Mr. Gaitskell added that agreement with the unilateralists was not possible , though he respected their views . 
He saw by reports that " those who organise these things " were recommending the supporters of unilateral nuclear disarmament to shift the emphasis of their intervention away from straight opposition to the official document on to opposition to the Polaris base . 
Nuclear spread 
To Mr. Macmillan , Mr. Gaitskell said the Prime Minister should begin to take seriously the danger of the spread of nuclear weapons within the Nato alliance . 
" Let us say to Macmillan that he should press , I hope with the agreement of Kennedy , in talks with the Soviet Union , for the establishment in central Europe of a zone of controlled disarmament . " 
He thought , he said , that the Soviet Union would be prepared to reach an agreement on a zone of controlled disarmament in Europe . 
Mr. Gaitskell concluded , declaring that the present was the beginning of a great period of opportunity for the party . 
It was a great chance that should be grasped . 
Inter-union jealousies prevent the fulfilment of a common policy for wages and other major questions , Mr. Jack Cooper , president , declared when congress opened . 
Gap widened 
He complained that the gap between earnings of manual workers in local government , compared with the average in all industries for men over 21 , had widened over the past ten years from 34s to 73s a week . 
Mr. Cooper suggested that the distortion arose from enhanced payments agreed at local level . 
Local negotiations and bargaining by branch officers and shop stewards had come to stay and some way must be found to integrate and co-ordinate their activities in official negotiating machinery . 
The General Council of the Trades Union Congress should therefore consider the matter . 
Consideration should also be given to the regrouping of unions and the modification of their structures to meet the growing concentration of capital . 
Common benefits 
Mr. Cooper argued that a common industrial contribution was urgent — particularly in unions serving workers in the same industry — along with common benefits paid during strikes and lock-outs . 
Suggesting that a total T.U.C. membership of eight million was a " poor show " compared with some countries , he argued that the position needed examination . 
" TAKE POLARIS AWAY " LETTER Russell plea to President Daily Worker Reporter 
BEFORE President Kennedy met Mr. Macmillan yesterday morning he was given the views of a wide section of the British people about Polaris submarine bases in this country . 
An open letter written by Earl Russell hoping that the President 's visit to London " will prove fruitful " was handed in at the American Embassy by representatives of the Committee of 100 . 
Earl Russell , President of the Committee of 100 , told Kennedy that he should take notice of "that very large and growing section which is opposed to the establishment of a Polaris base , whether at Holy Loch or elsewhere on British territory . " 
He pointed out that already there have been protests but that " very much larger protests are to be expected and are being planned . " 
There are three kinds of reasons that justify the protests and these should carry weight with the U.S. Government , Earl Russell suggested . 
" The first of these reasons is the importance of preserving the hitherto cordial relations between the U.S. and Great Britain , not only in Government circles , but in public opinion . " 
Earl Russell says it is inevitable , though profoundly regrettable , that the agitation against the Polaris base has generated some antagonism to the policy of the United States . 
The second reason is concerned with doubts as to the safety of the people of Great Britain ; " in a time of crisis it would probably be impossible for the British authorities to exercise any degree of control over the action of Polaris submarines . " 
IN AN HOUR 
He argues that there is a distinct possibility that so long as there is a Polaris base in Britain the Soviet Union might retaliate against Britain alone . 
" Such retaliation might , and probably would , destroy the whole population of Britain in the course of , at the most , an hour " without provoking American retaliation . 
Earl Russell believes : " It is very questionable whether British membership of Nato and British permission of American bases on our territory add anything to the strength of America , while , on the contrary , they impose upon America an onerous obligation which it may prove impossible to fulfil . " 
The third reason is that the supreme interest for the whole world — East and West and uncommitted nations — is the prevention of nuclear war . 
" A rapidly growing body of opinion in this country believes that Britain could be more effective in preventing a nuclear war as a neutral by helping to suggest agreements which could be accepted by both East and West . " 
" ONE FORCE " AIM FOR SERVICES Mr. Watkinson at work on five-year plan 400,000 REGULARS AND NO CALL-UP By H. B. BOYNE , Daily Telegraph Political Correspondent 
THE next White Paper on defence , to be published in March , is likely to contain a five-year plan for the three Services . 
Its aim will be to produce superbly equipped , all-Regular forces of about 400,000 men . 
The three Services would be " integrated " to a greater extent than ever before . 
Short of wearing the same uniform , which is not contemplated , the Navy , Army and Royal Air Force would become , for practical purposes , a single defence force . 
There would be complete co-operation at all levels in training and operations . 
This would apply also in the command structure and central administrative organisation . 
Mr. Watkinson , Minister of Defence , has been working on the plan for some months , with the Prime Minister 's approval . 
He has had numerous meetings with the Service Ministers . 
He has also had talks with the Earl of Home , Foreign Secretary , and with other Ministers concerned with overseas aspects of defence policy . 
VOLUNTARY FORCES Recruiting Confidence 
Details of the scheme are now being worked out by the Chiefs of Staff , a process that may take four or five months . 
The scheme will be subject to Cabinet approval . 
Mr. Watkinson remains convinced that the policy initiated in 1957 , in Mr. Sandys 's time as Minister of Defence , is still correct . 
This was to return to the tradition of all-Regular voluntary forces , with the last National Serviceman out of uniform by the end of 1962 . 
The Minister regards the recent trend of recruiting figures as encouraging . 
He is confident the aim can be achieved . 
While the possibility of an eventual return to National Service in some form can not be entirely discounted , he does not agree that the point has been reached where this need even be considered . 
SERVICE CHIEFS No Question of Dispute 
If National Service is ever resorted to , engagement would probably have to be for three years . 
It is thought this would be the minimum necessary for the extended training modern arms require and to enable each man to serve at least a year overseas . 
There is no truth in suggestions that Mr. Watkinson is at odds with the Service chiefs over the decision to dispense with National Service , or over any other aspect of defence policy . 
Criticisms about Army manpower appear to have come mainly from retired officers who have held high positions but are out of touch with the existing situation . 
Mr. Watkinson has had the utmost support from the C.I.G.S. , Field-Marshal Sir Francis Festing , who believes completely in the principle of an all-Regular army . 
Gen. Sir Richard Hull , who is to succeed Sir Francis , is equally convinced Mr. Watkinson is right . 
COMMAND CHANGE Delay Due to Berlin 
Sir Francis is to hand over to Sir Richard as from Nov. 1 . 
The hand-over , due in September , was delayed because of the Berlin crisis . 
Mr. Watkinson and his advisers felt the change would be unwise at a moment when attention had to be concentrated on possible need for important military operations . 
For this reason Sir Francis stayed on , and sacrificed his leave . 
Now that the Berlin situation seems more stable , it is felt he can relinquish his duties . 
As a field-marshal , he remains on the Active List . 
He may be asked to take another important post . 
GAINS FOR Dr. VERWOERD 'S PARTY From COLIN REID , Daily Telegraph Special Correspondent CAPE TOWN , Thursday . 
AN electronic computer which has accurately forecast the results of previous general elections put the new South African House early this morning at 104 Nationalists and 52 United Party and National Union members . 
There was a computed 8.4 per cent . 
swing towards the Nationalist party of Dr. Verwoerd , the Prime Minister . 
This implies the disappearance of the Progressive party from the House . 
Early results in yesterday 's general election showed Nationalists being returned in their strongholds , like Bloemfontein and the Transvaal , with slightly increased majorities . 
In the Cape , the veteran United Party politician , Mr. Harry Lawrence , standing as a Progressive , was defeated in his constituency , Salt River , by the United party candidate , Mr. H. M. Timoney . 
DR . 
STEYTLER DEFEATED 
The defeat of the leader of the Progressive party , Dr. Steytler , in Port Elizabeth South , announced immediately afterwards by the United party candidate , Mr. Plewman , left the Progressives deprived of both their chief figures . 
Dr. Verwoerd and the Leader of the Opposition , Sir de Villiers Graaff , have been returned unopposed . 
The contests were for 86 seats as 70 Nationalists and 20 United party candidates are unopposed . 
Long before polling closed at 8 p.m. it was evident that voters were bored by the Government 's frequent appeals to the electorate . 
The election was the fourth in four years . 
In most constituencies it may go down as the most apathetic in the country 's history . 
MOBILISATION IF NECESSARY , SAYS PREMIER FRESH CHECK ON FALL-OUT ORDERED 
THE Prime Minister disclosed in the Commons last night that he had considered early in the Parliamentary recess whether to mobilise reserves necessary to bring the British Army of the Rhine on to a war footing . 
He decided that it would be a great error to do so and to recall Parliament . 
But there would be no hesitation in mobilising if a further deterioration in the situation warranted such a step . 
It would have to be accompanied by other measures of a military , economic and political kind . 
Mr. Macmillan , who was winding up the foreign affairs debate , said the Government could not be party to accepting as a matter of principle the imposed division of Germany . 
" We must not be rattled into surrender , but we must not — and I am not — be afraid of negotiation . " 
Mr. Godber , Minister of State , Foreign Office , said earlier that the Government had asked the Medical Research Council to reassess the fall-out position in view of the Russian tests . 
The Council 's findings would be made public . 
" STAND FIRM " CALL Lord Avon 's Maiden Speech 
With a vigour and authority which delighted old Parliamentary friends and foes alike , the Earl of Avon , the former Sir Anthony Eden , in his maiden speech in the House of Lords last night , gave a warning that appeasement over Berlin could only lead to war . 
To stand firm , he declared , was not to invite war , but the surest way to avert it . 
The free world could not yield to " atomic blackmail " and survive . 
GETTING USED TO ANXIETY PREMIER 'S SPEECH By T. F. LINDSAY Daily Telegraph Special Correspondent WESTMINSTER , Wednesday . 
"WE must get accustomed to anxiety , " said the Prime Minister to the House of Commons to-night , " and not let ourselves drift or be pushed into panic . 
We must not be rattled into surrender , and we must not be , and I am not , afraid of negotiations . " 
It was the end of a rather curious speech in which Mr. Macmillan wound up the two-day debate on foreign affairs . 
He began in a low , almost chatty monotone , and his voice never rose to any accent of urgency . 
He passed in rapid review the United Nations Secretariat ; nuclear tests ; the canard about British interference with the United Nations in the Congo ; Kuwait ; and South-East Asia . 
He spent most of his short half-hour on Berlin . 
He deplored the possibility of some " new myth " about betrayal of Germany by the Allies . 
RUSSIA 'S AIM Irrevocable Division 
" We do not , " he said , " really know what the Russians want . " 
But he was certain that they wanted to establish a final and irrevocable division of Germany . 
Britain could not be a party to an imposed division . 
But negotiation , as the debate had shown , could be undertaken on a variety of bases . 
Mr. Macmillan explained that he had deliberately refrained during the summer from recalling Parliament or ordering mobilisation by proclamation , such as would be necessary to bring the British Army of the Rhine on to a fully active footing . 
That would have created a thoroughly undesirable atmosphere of panic . 
He thought that the situation was rather more hopeful . 
The Russians now realised its seriousness . 
The French doubts were more about procedure than about substance . 
The Prime Minister 's attitude of studied calm brought down the temperature of the debate , which never at any time rose to fever pitch , to a remarkable degree of sub-normality . 
Throughout Mr. Macmillan 's speech the Earl of Home , Foreign Secretary , was listening in the Peers ' Gallery . 
The early speakers in the debate each severely rated the speech of his predecessor . 
These strictures were all too well justified . 
We started with the plaintive wailings of Mr. Healey , " Shadow " Foreign Secretary , described by Mr. Godber , Minister of State , Foreign Office , as " pedantic and obscure on Berlin , damaging and obscure on the Congo . " 
In turn , Mr. Godber was censured by Mr. Shinwell , former Labour Defence Minister , for having read the House an ill-prepared essay . 
TOO WIDE A RANGE Free-for-All 
The trouble about such debates is that they range too widely . 
They remind one of the Rugby match in " Tom Brown 's Schooldays , " in which all the boys were welcome to take part , and only those who " really meant business " removed their jackets . 
Not many metaphorical braces were visible in the early stages of to-night 's debate . 
Mr. Healey had another tilt at the Prime Minister 's golf-course Press conference , which he described as " a display of flabby and fatuous complacency which takes us straight back to Neville Chamberlain . " 
A reference to the reunification of Germany brought a bark of " Start another war ! " from Mr. Ellis Smith ( Lab. , Stoke on Trent S. ) . 
Then Mr. Healey launched out on his pet theme of limitation of armaments in Europe . 
This could , he suggested , be linked with prohibition of the production of atomic weapons in any part of Europe . 
Inspection and control would be much easier to establish in these territories . 
Mr. Healey denounced the Government for using double standards . 
Ministers had rebuked the unaligned nations for not condemning the new Russian tests , but they themselves had no condemnation for events in Angola or Algeria . 
It was not for the Government , said Mr. Healey , to take up moral attitudes , " especially when the temple of their religion is the bingo-parlour . " 
This puzzled such students of comparative religion as had failed to detect this cult . 
But Mr. Healey had a partial and limited success . 
He rallied behind him the Left-wing opinion so coolly snubbed last night by his leader , Mr. Gaitskell . 
SCORN MERITED Mr. Godber 's Speech 
Mr. Godber 's performance merited all the mild scorn heaped on it by Mr. Shinwell . 
True , he did tell the House that the Government had asked the Medical Research Council to reassess the fall-out position in view of the Russian tests , and said that the council 's findings would be published . 
He was not so happy in his defence of the Government 's failure to condemn France for her nuclear tests in the Sahara on the grounds that they were only little ones . 
This was too reminiscent of the nursemaid and her illegitimate baby . 
For the most part , Mr. Godber muttered his way through a cliche-ridden Foreign Office brief . 
He resembles the elephant seal , an otherwise endearing creature whose articulation is limited , we are told , to a series of heavy sighs . 
M.P.s PROTEST AT EMBASSY RUSSIAN TESTS By Our Political Staff 
Sir Lynn Ungoed-Thomas , M.P . 
for Leicester N.E. , a former Labour Solicitor-General , and Mrs. Barbara Castle , M.P . 
for Blackburn , a member of the Labour party National Executive , delivered a letter to Mr. Soldatov , the Russian Ambassador , last night protesting against the Russian nuclear tests . 
It was signed by 60 Labour M.P.s , many of them Left-wing sympathisers . 
It condemned " the pollution of the world 's atmosphere as a crime against humanity . " 
A personal letter of protest against the tests from Canon Collins , chairman of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament , addressed to Mr. Khruschev , was also taken to the Russian Embassy . 
Mass Lobbying 
A POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT writes : Ban-the-bomb demonstrators thronged the Central Lobby of the House of Commons last night and formed a queue stretching for more than 200 yards outside in Old Palace Yard . 
About 2,000 lobbied M.P.s and harangued them on disarmament . 
Mac and Lloyd whisper ... 
EARLY CURB ON THE PROFIT SHARKS By MICHAEL STEVENSON 
MR SELWYN LLOYD may speed up his plans to catch speculators in shares and property . 
The first hint of the Chancellor bowing to public opinion over his " July Budget " came dramatically in the Commons yesterday . 
Mr. Lloyd said on Tuesday that he proposed to deal in his next regular Budget with some profits which now escape tax . 
Sir Edward Boyle , Financial Secretary to the Treasury , said yesterday that the Government does not like retrospective legislation . 
He went on to describe the kind of people the Chancellor hopes to tax . 
These are people buying and selling shares within a short period , those " stagging " on a new issue and property dealers who form a chain of companies and put one property deal through each . 
Mr. Harold Wilson , Shadow Chancellor , jumped up to offer the Government an easy passage for such legislation . 
" Why do n't you make proposals to legislate in the autumn ? " 
Mr. Wilson asked . 
" We would n't call it an Autumn Budget . 
You can call it a Taxation Management Bill , if you like . " 
Nodded 
While Mr. Wilson was speaking , the Prime Minister and Mr. Lloyd had a whispered conversation . 
They nodded at each other and Sir Edward rose to say that the Chancellor would bear Mr. Wilson 's offer in mind . 
Guy Eden writes : Treasury experts are already working on the scheme . 
Profits of genuine investors in industry will not be affected , but only quick in-and-out speculator deals . 
FOULKES REFUSES SUICIDE 
FRANK FOULKES , Communist president of the ETU , refused yesterday to " commit suicide " at the TUC 's invitation . 
He was announcing his executive 's rejection of the ultimatum to the ETU . 
In reply to the call for his resignation he said : 
" Our rules say that if an official resigns he is not allowed to run again for three years . 
" I have only 2 1/2 years to go before I retire , so this is an invitation from my good friends of the TUC that I should commit hara-kiri . 
" The terms 
The other TUC demands : 
Five leading Communists must not hold office for five years ; 
Sub-committees set up to strip secretary John Byrne of his powers must disband in ten days . 
These the ETU executive rejected as " wholly unacceptable " and " unwarranted interference . " 
But it agreed to postpone operation of the sub-committees . 
The union now lays itself open to suspension from the TUC followed by expulsion . 
A TUC committee will decide next month at a special meeting . 
UTOPIA 1980 ... 
BUT Mr. K SHOWS HIS TEETH WARLIKE FLOWS THE NEVA 
THE biggest naval show ever seen on the River Neva was staged yesterday by Mr. Kruschev as Russia read his promises of a Communist Utopia by 1980 . 
Among the 60 ships were rocket-carrying craft ranging in size from torpedo-boats to cruisers , and submarines " able to strike mighty blows , " according to a TV commentator . 
The small rocket craft , for destroying big ships , are controlled automatically , even to the preparations for launching their rockets . 
Red NATO 
Applauding on the river banks at Leningrad were thousands now told that in 20 years they will have free food , housing , light , heat , transport and medical treatment — all for a working week of 34 to 36 hours . 
" The whole naval might of the Soviet Union can be seen here — a truly inspiring and proud sight , " said Moscow radio 's commentator . 
The parade was reviewed by Marshal Andrei Grechko , commanding the forces of the Warsaw Pact countries — the Communist " Nato . " 
He said rocket-carrying atomic submarines now formed the basis of the Soviet Navy . 
As Mac reveals his momentous decision to join the Six LONE TORY MP LASHES PREMIER By MICHAEL STEVENSON 
MR . 
MACMILLAN 'S announcement in the Commons of his momentous decision to apply for membership of the Common Market provoked a violent personal attack by one — just one — of his backbenchers . 
Mr. Anthony Fell ( Yarmouth ) called the decision "shocking " and added : 
" It is the most disastrous thing any Prime Minister has done for many , many generations . " 
MPs SHOCKED 
He concluded : " The best service the Prime Minister can do would be to resign . " 
The outburst shocked MPs of all parties . 
Even close friends were signalling Mr. Fell to stop . 
There were loud cries of " shame " from all parts of the Conservative side . 
Mr. Fell appeared to be in tears as he sat down . 
A few minutes later , Mr. Fell got up and left the chamber . 
He returned five minutes later to stand just inside the doorway looking more composed . 
In the middle of the amazing scene , Mr. Macmillan waved his hand at Mr. Fell . 
This seemed to infuriate Mr. Fell even more . 
" I can not be told to sit down by the Prime Minister . " 
Protests had been expected from Tory rebels . 
But Mr. Fell 's attack was unprecedented . 
He accused the Prime Minister of " political double talk . " 
"DISASTER " 
" It had the effect on one former supporter that he now thinks this Prime Minister is a national disaster , " he said . 
Most MPs agreed that Mr. Fell 's attack had , if anything , rallied support to the Prime Minister . 
This apparently , was Mr. Macmillan 's assessment . 
He confined his reply to the observation that Mr. Fell had probably " maximised his support . " 
There were no other attacks of such ferocity . 
But there was ample evidence of Conservative and Labour opposition , which will be aired in the debate tomorrow and on Thursday . 
As Mr. Macmillan made his announcement , the House was crowded . 
He said : " No British Government could join the European Economic Community without prior negotiation with a view to meeting the needs of the Commonwealth countries , of our European Free Trade Association partners and of British agriculture . " 
"IT 'S RIGHT " 
Near the end of a long statement , Mr. Macmillan stated the Government 's intention : 
" After long and earnest consideration , Her Majesty 's Government have come to the conclusion that it would be right for Britain to make a formal application .. for negotiations with a view to joining the Community . " 
At this point , Mr. Paul Williams ( Cons. , Sunderland ) called out " Shame . " 
Mr. Williams is a close associate of Mr. Fell . 
Mr. Macmillan said , if negotiations were brought to a conclusion , there would be consultation with Commonwealth countries before the matter was put to the Commons . 
MAC SEES EUROPE A COMMONWEALTH By MICHAEL STEVENSON 
MR . 
MACMILLAN yesterday looked forward to a Commonwealth — of Europe . 
This was his vision of the Western Europe which he hopes Britain can join through the Common Market . 
But Mr. Macmillan rejected a suggestion that Britain would lose its identity in some future political merger . 
" The concept of a federal system , like the United States , was unreal , " he said . 
" Europe is too old , too diverse in tradition , language and institutions , for that . " 
In tune 
But a Commonwealth of Europe was much more in tune with their national traditions and ours . 
The Premier was opening a two-day debate in the Commons on the Common Market . 
He claimed that , unless we were in the Common Market , we should not be able to play any part in determining its future . 
" We can lead better from within , " he said . 
Mr. Macmillan dealt with the main objection raised by Tory critics . 
Mr. Anthony Fell , who created a scene on this point on Monday , took up a position almost hidden behind the Serjeant at Arms ' chair . 
Tribute 
Mr. Macmillan said we could be more help to the Commonwealth through the strength we would gain in the Common Market than by isolation . 
He paid tribute to the development of the Common Market . 
" The Community ( Common Market ) has imparted an impetus and an economic growth to The Six . 
Above all , it is an idea which has gripped men 's minds , " he said . 
Referring to previous negotiations , Mr. Macmillan looked towards Mr. Reginald Maudling . 
" These were negotiations in which the President of the Board of Trade played a conspicuous part , " the Premier said . 
He dismissed the idea that Britain would be swamped by cheap labour . 
Our industry , he said , would probably gain . 
" Many people feel we have had , perhaps , too much shelter , " he went on . 
" We can not draw up a precise balance-sheet for our industry . " 
But the balance of advantage probably lay in the size of markets which would be available — something comparable to the United States or Russia . 
Mr. Hugh Gaitskell argued that no final decision should be taken until a conference of Commonwealth Premiers had been held . 
Conservatives protested when Mr. Gaitskell said he had been told in Europe last weekend that we were looked upon as a liability . 
He had been told this " by some people of considerable authority , " he retorted . 
" I agree with the Prime Minister that I do not think we are necessarily bound for federalism in Europe , " he went on . 
Tariffs 
If we joined the Common Market , our food subsidies would probably be replaced by a system of tariffs . 
" That will mean a rise in the cost of living . " 
YES , IT 'S A GOLD RUSH , SELWYN 
BUDGETTE or no Budgette YOU are spending more as the summer holiday season moves into top gear . 
On the eve of August Bank Holiday the spending spree is at a new all-time peak . 
Note circulation soared for the sixth successive week — this time by more than £15,000,000 last week . 
And that brought the figure to a record £2,415,000,000 . 
This was £100,000,000 more than the corresponding week last year and £37,000,000 up on the 1960 record set last Christmas . 
Now look at the other side of all these coins . 
The big "squeeze " means that it is going to be more difficult to arrange a loan or overdraft . 
And banks will be stricter in recalling existing overdrafts . 
This is underlined in the Central Bank 's weekly return ... 
... which shows that more than £163,000,000 of the banks ' money is now frozen in the form of special deposits with the Bank of England . 
Banks have paid in a first instalment of almost £8,000,000 in response to the Budgette appeal . 
About another £70,000,000 is due by September 20 . 
For nearly a year about £150,000,000 has been frozen . 
K CRIES I SPY NAZIS 
MR . 
KRUSCHEV raises the bogy of German militarism in his replies to the West on Berlin . 
And he repeats that the problem " must be solved this year . " 
The Notes to the Big Three and a memorandum to West Germany were published in Moscow yesterday . 
They tell : 
The U.S. — It is false to say the absence of a peace treaty with Germany causes no real danger . 
West Germany , with its militarists and revenge-seekers , is becoming a hotbed of war danger in Europe . 
Barbarously bombed 
Even now , aided by the U.S. , Britain and France , it has more than enough forces and arms to touch off a world war . 
BRITAIN — One can not but wonder at British bases being put at the disposal of those very militarists who razed Coventry and barbarously bombed London and other British cities . 
FRANCE — One can hardly conceive the French are not alarmed .... 
Next door , in West Germany , before everyone 's eyes there has sprung up a regular army led by former Nazi generals and officers . 
With fire and sword France denies Algeria the right to self-determination and tramples on Tunisians ' right to independence . 
WEST GERMANY — Russia would like to see a clear realization that West Germany would not survive even a few hours of a third world war . 
The best way to rule out such a tragic contingency would be to sign a peace treaty to remove the cancerous growth of West Berlin 's occupation status . 
Behind Bonn 's slogan of German self-determination is the intention to impose on East Germany the regime existing in West Germany . 
THOUSANDS SCARED BY K TREK OUT 
REFUGEES are pouring out of East Germany into West Berlin faster than ever . 
Mr. K 's latest speech scared 1,157 East Germans to cross into West Berlin 's reception centre DURING MONDAY NIGHT . 
And officials expect the total to leap to 3,000 a day . 
This figure has been surpassed only on the eve of the East German disturbances on July 17 , 1953 . 
And officials fear it may be too much for the city 's refugee camps . 
They will overflow and private houses will have to be used . 
FOLLOW WINTER AT SANDOWN Team Spirit nap to repeat his Mildmay win By THE SCOUT 
TEAM SPIRIT , winner of the Mildmay Memorial 'Chase last January , returns to Sandown today in an attempt to stage a repeat . 
Strictly on the book , he has little chance of beating Dandy Scot — assuming that Fred Winter 's mount would have made it a very close thing 12 months ago had he not capsized at the last fence . 
Team Spirit is 12lb. worse off this time , but on the other hand is two years younger than his rival , and is likely to have made the greater improvement . 
Also , there is little doubt that he has a brighter turn of finishing speed than Dandy Scot , who only held on to second place in the Rhymney Breweries 'Chase through his own indomitable courage and the relentless driving of his jockey . 
GOOD FORM 
Limonalt , brought down by Chavara when well to the fore at Cheltenham last month , earlier beat Frenchman 's Cove here — form that looked all the better when the runner-up went on to trounce Mandarin at Kempton . 
Limonalt is nothing to look at but is tough and game , and will stay this trip well . 
He is suggested as the best each-way long-shot and , together with Dandy Scot , the danger to Team Spirit ( 2.35 nap ) . 
Even if he fails on Dandy Scot , Fred Winter is unquestionably the jockey to follow . 
He should score on Flame Gun ( 1.30 ) , Some Alibi ( 3.5 ) , and Tovaritch ( 3.30 ) . 
Blinkers made all the difference to Tovaritch at Hurst Park and , similarly equipped today , he looks much too good for his Village Hurdle rivals . 
Best of the opposition may be Chinese Pintall , favourably noted when sixth , running-on , behind Luminarch here last month . 
Flame Gun , unbeaten here , seems well suited to giving away lumps of weight in small fields such as he faces in the Londesborough 'Chase . 
CAPSIZED 
It is impossible to say whether Some Alibi would have won had he not capsized three fences out at Windsor last Saturday . 
But he was several lengths ahead of King 's Nephew at the time , and would have probably made a close race of it . 
He should have too much speed , providing he stands up , for Hal 's Hope , still far from a clever fencer , in the Stand Novices ' 'Chase . 
Top novices ' clash is at Birmingham , where { Retour de Flamme ( 2.0 ) , Tokoroa , and Bandalore meet in the Packington 'Chase . 
{ Retour de Flamme allies his always bright turn of speed to brilliant fencing , and he should be too strong at the finish for his rivals . 
Commandeer ( 3.30 ) is one of the best four-year-old hurdlers seen out so far — though that is not saying much . 
He should have an easy task in the last event . 
{ RETOUR DE FLAMME FOR THE " REPLAY " By PETER O'SULLEVAN 
THE finishing order in the 1958 Champion Hurdle , won by Bandalore from Tokoroa and { Retour de Flamme ( 2.0 nap ) , may be reversed in a unique replay this afternoon , when the trio clash at Birmingham over fences . 
{ Retour de Flamme was frequently backed to beat Tokoroa over hurdles , but in six encounters he never succeeded . 
And after each had staged an impressive first-time effort over fences Fred Rimell bet Syd Warren that Tokoroa would again triumph the first time they met in a 'chase . 
The Packington 'Chase will determine the bet , and if Syd Warren proves the winner , as I expect , Bob McCreery will complete an unusual hat-trick . 
For on the two previous occasions he partnered this novice National entry , he won on him at Lewes ( on the flat ) and over hurdles at Newton Abbot . 
Anyway it should be a great race . 
For Tokoroa 's Hurst Park running was undoubtedly an incorrect reflection on his true ability . 
While Bandalore had no chance last time out to endorse his notable first fencing effort . 
THE BLOT ? 
Northern Mildmay hope , Springbok arrived at Sandown yesterday in fine trim after leaving Middleham at 5 a.m . 
He could prove a blot on the handicap — as connections hope . 
Merganser also seems well treated , and Johnny Lehane is confident of a bold bid by Miss Popsi Wopsi . 
Me , I am going along with Dandy Scot ( 2.30 e.w. ) on his seventh run over the course where his first effort in the 1955-6 season was a fall two from home in a novices ' 'chase . 
Since then he has won two 'chases here and been beaten a short head over hurdles . 
Gerry Madden 's luck finally changed yesterday — and what a reception his fellow jockeys gave him — when King 's last-fence fall handed the Stanley 'Chase to Mandarin . 
There is now no doubt that the winner 's confidence was shaken by his Chepstow fall , and he 'll miss the National in favour of a Gold Cup preparation . 
And , of course , 29-year-old Gerry , to whom Mme Kilian Hennessy has remained so loyal , will continue to partner him henceforth . 
Problem horse Mossreeba even defied Johnny Gilbert 's skill in the Metropolitan Hurdle . 
He struck the front after jumping the last but as Keith Piggott says : " He 'll come and beat anything , but as soon as he gets his head in front up it goes — and he does n't want to know . " 
Avala compensated the stable when a doubtful issue was clinched by Beldon Hall 's last-fence fall in the Mole Handicap . 
League v Players — replay Wednesday MINISTRY STAGE A LAST-CHANCE PEACE TALK By CLIVE TOYE 
AN urgent peace move by the Ministry of Labour last night could stop Soccer 's headlong flight into a strike . 
The Ministry have called the Football League and the players ' leaders together for a conference in London next Wednesday — 72 hours before the players ' strike is due to begin . 
The conference could end in , at least , a postponement of the strike notices . 
For the players ' leaders are keen to tell the League : " We wish to negotiate on one of YOUR ideas — an eased form of the retain and transfer system . " 
This new system was suggested by the Football League management committee on December 29 , accepted by the players , then rejected by the Football League club chairmen this week , causing the present crisis . 
" FIRST-CLASS IDEA " 
Players ' leader Jimmy Hill said last night : "It was an absolutely first-class idea by the League , and it would really work in practice . 
" The League clubs feared this proposal because they thought it could rob them of too many players at one time . 
That is n't so . 
" With new , longer contracts , a manager could sign some of his players for one year , some for two and some for three . 
At the end of any one season , only a small number of players would be in a position to ask for a move . " 
League president Joe Richards said last night at his Barnsley home that he would go to next Wednesday 's meeting " if my presence means avoiding a strike . " 
He added : " But I am not going to waste time . 
I am not budging on the issue of the transfer system . " 
The players now believe that , if it is necessary , the final instrument for the defeat of the Football League is the case of 26-year-old former England B inside-forward Alfie Stokes . 
STRONG CASE 
Stokes is ready to take legal action against Fulham , his last League club , claiming they have no right to keep him out of League football . 
Stokes , the players have been advised , has an even stronger case against the League 's present contract than George Eastham , the Newcastle star transferred to Arsenal after a long , bitter wrangle with Newcastle . 
Under the system suggested by the League management on December 29 , a player due to be offered a new contract by his club would be given details of his terms by May 19 , accepting or refusing by May 31 . 
If he refused to sign , the League would find him another club before June 30 . 
If a player was not transferred by June 30 , and his club wished to retain him , the club would have to pay him a minimum of £15 a week until he was transferred . 
Mr. X will be happy with 10% By ROBERT FINDLAY The Sports Editor 
THE mysterious Mr. X sat drinking coffee in the back room of his modest Charterhouse-street , London , office . 
Mr. X , accused by Football League secretary Alan Hardaker as being the man behind the strike . 
Mr. Hardaker hinted Mr. X wanted to enrol all footballers under his banner , then hire them out to clubs at his price . 
Was n't Jimmy Hill , chairman of the Professional Footballers ' Association , one of his men ? 
I decided on a frontal attack . 
" You are trying a Soccer take-over , " I accused the fresh-faced , fortyish character who offered me coffee in an Irish brogue . 
" You want to dictate to the League clubs . " 
His name 
Mr. X sighed helplessly . 
" Not on your life . 
I 'm only a literary agent trying to earn 10 per cent to keep the wolf from the door . " 
Bagenal Harvey is the name . 
His partner sat opposite him . 
His name ? 
Denis Compton . 
Eleven years ago the enterprising Mr. Harvey began to specialise in contributions by well-known sportsmen . 
He enrolled them on 10 per cent commission to endorse articles for newspapers , periodicals , books , broadcasts , and advertising . 
He guided the feet of Denis Compton , Godfrey Evans , John Surtees , Danny Blanchflower , Johnny Haynes , Trevor Bailey , and dozens of other sportsmen through the pitfalls of Fleet-street towards contracts based on their fame and personality as sportsmen . 
" And that 's all I 'm interested in , " said Mr. Harvey helplessly . 
" Ten per cent and the right to help sportsmen make something out of their great reputations . " 
Mr. Harvey is extremely successful in his aims , though he creates enemies in sport and in Fleet-street through his activities in putting a price on sportsmen 's contributions . 
" But to say I am behind the strike is so much nonsense , " declared Mr. Harvey heatedly . 
" WHY ? 
I ca n't make players ' contracts . 
I ca n't make a club pay a player so much a week . 
And , what 's more , I do n't want to . 
" A strike 's the last thing I want . 
It would put my clients out of business , and then where would I be ? 
" Mr. Hardaker knows Jimmy Hill is on my list of contributors , but our deals are strictly business . 
" His business 
" Jimmy has legal and other advisers much better qualified to help him than I am . 
" And in any case I have enough to do minding my own business without wasting time dispelling silly rumours . " 
On the walls of his office hung pictures of sporting celebrities signed in " many thanks " terms . 
On his shelves stood sporting books by his contributors . 
Denis Compton broke in with : " And , believe it or not , Bagenal is the only man an England cricket team ever invited to go on tour at their expense . 
" It was before the 1957-58 tour of South Africa , when Bagenal said half-jokingly before some of the team : " I wish I was going with you so-and-so 's . " 
"The next thing the M.C.C . 
lads had whipped round the necessary £500 and invited Bagenal , through their captain , Freddie Brown , to go with them . 
" He did n't because he took ill shortly afterwards , but the gesture was what I call " highly commended " in any language . " 
I said adieu and left Mr. X stripped of his mystery , to finish his coffee and calculate the week 's takings at 10 per cent . 
CHEUNG from CHINA FACES WOLVES By MIKE LANGLEY 
OUT with the half-time lemon and in with the chop-suey ... for here comes Cheung Chi Doy , the first full Chinese to play in the Football League . 
He is Blackpool 's outside left against Wolves today . 
And Aston Villa assistant manager Dick Taylor , who saw 19-year-old Cheung bamboozle Villa reserves on New Year 's Eve , offers this testimonial : — 
"I 've not seen such a perfectly balanced player for years . 
I just ca n't understand why he has n't been in the first team sooner . " 
Cheung called in at Blackpool last summer on his way to Rome , where he was due to play for Formosa in the Olympics . 
He decided he liked Lancashire , forgot Rome , and signed professional for Blackpool in October . 
Ten reserve games , the last five at centre forward , and seven goals — that 's Cheung 's record . 
Rugby Union NEWPORT NEARLY STICK IN THE MUD Oxford Fail to Combine : Willcox Outstanding at Full-back By RUPERT CHERRY Newport ... 14pts Oxford University ... 5 
THIS was harder work for Newport than the score suggests . 
Come rain , slime or mud — and all were present at Rodney Parade — Newport always try to retain their famous and spectacular technique of handling and backing-up . 
This time , however , it almost came unstuck , or rather stuck in the mud . 
True they scored two tries , but one was almost a gift . 
Their second penalty goal was in the same category , so that the margin of a goal , two penalty goals and a try to a goal was , on the whole , somewhat flattering . 
Oxford put up a splendid fight and none more so than their courageous captain , Willcox . 
His fielding , tackling and covering were a complete justification of his selection for England against Ireland . 
Oxford had their share in the open but , unlike Newport , could not combine as a team . 
So their movements were short as well as few and far between . 
The centres , after one or two tentative thrusts early on when the ground was not cut up , soon found they were reduced to kicking . 
This they did all too often straight to the opposition . 
In the circumstances , Brown , in place of Sharp at fly-half , was probably justified in preferring to kick rather than to set his line going over ground in which the lightest step made a deep imprint . 
EARLY RHYTHM Griffith 's Poor Day 
Newport had no such qualms and swung at once into their handling rhythm . 
But Griffiths , at fly-half , had a bad day . 
He dropped many passes and even those that came well to hand . 
However , within the first few minutes , a break by Britton in his own half led to handling by more than half the side and ended with Ford dropping the ball with Wills waiting for the scoring pass . 
Lewis soon kicked the first of his two penalty goals from the 25 while Willcox failed with a similar shot . 
But the Oxford full-back redeemed himself immediately with a splendid tackle on Lewis . 
Just after half-time an unfortunate mistake by Oxford caused the first Newport try . 
Ware rushed in from the wing attempting to field a high punt in the centre of the field , which Willcox had well covered . 
They collided , neither secured the ball and , with the right-wing unguarded , Wills was able to collect and score . 
Lewis converted with a fine kick . 
LIGHTS ON Oxford Encouraged 
Oxford 's best means of progress was by the boot and it was in this manner that they secured their only success . 
McPartlin and Stafford hacked the ball from halfway , Lewis fell and missed it and McPartlin went on to score , Willcox converting . 
The introduction of the white ball and floodlights gave Oxford encouragement . 
An interception by McPartlin almost led to another try . 
Griffiths caught him and Ware was only just held as he struggled with three Newport men clinging to him towards the line . 
However , Newport recovered their poise and a fine run by Jones brought another try . 
Willcox stopped him but Wills was there to make the touch-down . 
Lewis just missed the conversion but , when Roberts was caught off-side in front of the Oxford posts the Newport full-back added three more points with the last kick of the game . 
EASTERN COUNTIES WITHOUT JEEPS BARBARIANS DOUBT 
R. E. G. Jeeps , England 's scrum-half and captain , has had to withdraw from the Eastern Counties team to meet Devon in the semi-final of the County Championship at Torquay to-morrow . 
He injured a shoulder playing for Northampton at Bath last week . 
R. J. Kent , of Wasps , takes his place . 
Jeeps is playing against Ireland at Lansdowne Road to-morrow week and he hopes to-morrow 's rest will ensure a complete recovery . 
Cyril Davies , the Wales and Cardiff centre , who sustained a collapsed knee tendon and burst a blood vessel in the match against England at Cardiff on Jan. 21 , may not play for the Barbarians against the South Africans at Cardiff . 
He will have a fitness test to-day . 
Since Davies has also been selected to play for Wales against Scotland at Murrayfield to-morrow week , it is unlikely that he will take any risks in turning out for the Barbarians . 
Coventry at Guy 's 
Price , Coventry 's second-row forward and new England " cap " against Ireland , is recovering from a cold and may not play against Guy 's Hospital at Coundon Road . 
Coventry 's other England player , hooker Robinson , has been selected for the game but may stand down . 
H. J. Wyman , a senior from Bablake School , Coventry , replaces Cheltenham freshman D. Protherough as hooker for Cambridge against the Army at Grange Road . 
This will be the only change from the side which drew at Gloucester last week . 
NAVY 'S WEAK COVERING LETS SWANSEA THROUGH By ARTHURIAN Swansea ... 16 pts Royal Navy ... 3 
SWANSEA were too strong for the Royal Navy on a muddy St. Helens pitch in heavy rain yesterday . 
Having to concede weight forward proved too much for the seamen and they lost by two goals and two tries to a try . 
A lack of determined defence in midfield and casual defensive covering allowed Swansea to score tries , but it was the greater experience and vigour of Swansea , with five internationals , which carried the day . 
After their good display against Newport the Navy failed to reproduce the same form . 
Although playing with the wind in the first half they were never able to control the play . 
At half-back Rodd was closely marked and his partner Francis did not have a happy match . 
Consequently the Navy threequarters saw little of the ball , although Tyrrell tried hard . 
Cormack was particularly sound at full-back . 
Thomas , Jones and Palmer were the best forwards . 
BEST FORWARD Williams Outstanding 
Swansea 's front row of Williams , Gale and Lewis played strongly with Williams the outstanding forward on the field . 
Two new halves , Phillips and Lewis , showed promise , while Mainwaring was a powerful centre . 
Swansea took the lead after 33min when Navy passing broke down inside their own half . 
Harding booted through and followed up , beating Sinclair and Cormack , to score just short of the dead-ball line . 
The Navy replied with a try when Thomas robbed Harding after a line-out and ran through to send Rodd over from 25 yards . 
Early in the second half Swansea took the lead . 
E. Lewis went away from a scrum-five outside the Navy line and a long pass to Young enabled the centre to give Bebb a clear run-in . 
Mainwaring kicked a good goal from far out . 
Five minutes later Gale gathered in a short line and dived over the Navy line for another try . 
After 15 minutes the Navy again dropped the ball during passing and Mainwaring gathered to race away and jink inside Cormack for a good try which he converted . 
HOSPITALS MATCH OFF 
The second-round Hospitals Cup-tie between Guy 's and Bart 's at Richmond athletic ground yesterday , was postponed because of the state of the pitch . 
It has been provisionally arranged for next Thursday . 
Squash Rackets AZAM TOP SEED 
Azam Khan , Pakistan , Open squash rackets champion for the past three years , is top seed for the Professional championship at the RAC , London , from Feb. 15-20 . 
Sporting Commentary HOCKEY JOHN CONROY OUT FOR THE SEASON BY OUR HOCKEY CORRESPONDENT 
OPPONENTS of England on the hockey field this season will no doubt breathe more freely at the news that John Conroy , the best inside-forward of his time and one of the best this country has ever had , is laid as firmly by the heels as a man can be outside prison . 
He is in hospital and there he will stay for the next three weeks to have a broken ankle bone pinned . 
After that prolonged rest will be necessary . 
Conroy is out for the season and the selectors have a problem on their hands in shaping the England attack , which will make the more senior members , such as Mr. Harry Lewis and Mr. H. L. Holliwell , think back uneasily to the 1956-57 season . 
At that time Conroy was in Canada , where he had gone from Melbourne following the Olympic Games . 
In his absence England put into the field the most ill-assorted attack I can ever remember . 
In five internationals , ten forwards were selected , the line never played in the same order twice and England scored just three goals , losing to South Africa and Germany , beating Wales and Scotland and playing a goalless draw with Ireland . 
These facts and figures are the measure of the problem facing the selectors at this moment , with Conroy injured and two other likely candidates for the forward line , internationals N. M. Forster and P. B. Austen , not available . 
They are also the answer to those critics of Conroy who complained that he slowed up the attack . 
What they meant , of course , was that Conroy did not belong to the school that bash on regardless and hope for the best . 
R. D. Smith , who played outside Conroy on both wings for England , always says that nobody else could place the ball so perfectly to create an opening . 
I am sure Smith is right . 
I am equally sure that more could and should have been made of Conroy 's remarkable gift of ball-control by moulding the attack round him . 
That calls for a carefully planned programme of coaching and training , which in spite of the drive and enthusiasm of the former match secretary of the Hockey Association , Mr. L. S. E. Jones , has never so far been achieved . 
Lessons from Abroad 
In this respect England , and the other home countries , too , lag behind what is common practice on the Continent . 
There it is accepted that natural talent is not enough and a man must be taught the finer points of a team game as scientific as football and twice as fast . 
Nothing is left to chance that careful preparation can obviate and in some cases professional coaches of Indian origin have been employed . 
Without going as far as that England have for some time had a national team coach in S. D. Dickins whose methods have made Hounslow one of the most successful club sides in the country over the last ten years . 
Unhappily , Dickins has not so far enjoyed the financial and administrative backing that a coach must have if he is to produce results . 
TURN OF THE TIDE ? 
Holland Match Preparation 
There are , however , some signs that the sting of many defeats suffered at the hands of Continental countries since the war is slowly creating its own antidote . 
Plans are afoot , I gather , for a training programme during the summer aimed at producing an England team to play Holland in the autumn , a team which will do justice to a match marking the 75th anniversary of the Hockey Association . 
The idea is to get the probable players and reserves together for two full week-ends of coaching and training , to include a trial and wind up with a match which would be a dress rehearsal for the Holland fixture in October . 
This is good news . 
England have not beaten Holland in the five matches played since the war . 
It is time the tide was turned . 
WELCOME EXPERIMENT Penalty-shot Proposal 
An experiment which all ranks in the game are likely to have on their hands next season concerns the penalty bully which has been under fire for some time , mainly on the ground that it is not severe enough on the offending team . 
So far no one has produced an acceptable alternative . 
Now , however , the International Federation are to propose to the International Hockey Board , the body which makes the rules , that a penalty shot at goal be substituted for the penalty bully . 
This , it seems , would be a flick or push shot , not a hit , and the ball would have to be kept below shoulder height . 
But many details are still under discussion , such as the distance from which the shot should be taken . 
The proposal is due to come before the IHB next May . 
Until more is known of the details , judgment must be reserved , but the initiative is to be welcomed . 
William Hickey Jockey judge will ride on Circuit 
MR . 
JUSTICE DIPLOCK , a 53-year-old Queen 's Bench Division judge , is setting out on Circuit on April 15 despite the pleas of his wife , Lady Diplock . 
Circuit , I should add , is the name of his trusted mount in the Bar point-to-point . 
And Sir Kenneth Diplock , who has ridden in it — and lost — as a Q.C. , will be taking part for the first time as a High Court judge . 
His wife views the undertaking with some trepidation . 
At their home in the Temple last night she told me : " Circuit is getting old and though my husband rides him every week with the Cottesmore Hunt I do hope he will not ride him next month . 
" I do n't want him to get hurt again . " 
But no doubt Lady Diplock recalls an accident in 1957 when her husband 's horse fell and he was badly thrown . 
His arm was broken and later he presided at the Old Bailey with his arm in a sling , hidden under his robes . 
Actually , for any young barrister who wants to have a few modest shillings on the judge , I am told he is a brilliant rider . 
He will be racing against five barristers . 
NEW ZEALAND 'S greatest fighter ace , Group Captain Alan ( Lucky ) Deere , who destroyed 21 enemy aircraft during the war , has been appointed aide-de-camp to the Queen in place of Group Captain H. E. Brufton , who is retiring from the R.A.F. 
Deere , who is 43 and married with two children , is at present Deputy Director of Personnel ( Air ) at the Air Ministry . 
WORK AGAIN 
CHARMIAN SCOTT , 18-year-old niece of the Duchess of Gloucester , returned to modelling yesterday for the first time since the car accident that put her in hospital four weeks ago . 
A fast disappearing scar on her left leg , and a slightly discoloured eye — well-camouflaged by make-up — were the only visible reminders of the accident , which occurred when a car in which she was travelling overturned at Hyde Park Corner . 
" I still have one or two other bruises , " said Miss Scott , " but fortunately they ca n't be seen by the public . " 
She was appearing in a fashion show put on by a Piccadilly firm in a Park-lane hotel . 
Among those watching her were her mother , Lady George Scott , and her elder sister , Georgina , who is a sales-girl for the firm . 
Georgina does not envy her sister 's much photographed fame . 
" I 'm honest with myself , " she said with a smile . 
" I know perfectly well that I have n't got the shape for modelling . 
So I just sell the clothes she models . " 
SEPARATE 
THE German Ambassador , Dr. Hans von Herwarth , has left London to go ski-ing in the Italian Alps . 
His wife left on the same day for winter sports in Southern Germany and the Tyrol . 
Said a spokesman for the ambassador yesterday : " They usually take their winter holidays separately . 
No special significance in that . 
" The ambassador seems to prefer Italy to Austria . 
I suppose it is just one of those things . " 
Pioneering spirit is still there 
DOROTHY , LADY BRUNTISFIELD , who left England to farm in Kenya 10 years ago , has returned to this country . 
She has bought a house in Belgravia , and hopes to move in after Easter . 
When she left England in 1951 she said that Kenya was " a country of freedom , wonderful climate and no restrictions . " 
She remained on her farm — a lone white woman — throughout the Mau Mau troubles . 
" I was frightened , of course — who would n't be ? — but there was something worth fighting for , " she told me yesterday . 
" Things are different now . 
We have been let down . 
And with all these African politicians making trouble it might blow up into another Congo any day . " 
Lady Bruntisfield — first wife of Lord Bruntisfield — sold everything before leaving Kenya . 
Lady Bruntisfield , in her late fifties , still retains the pioneering spirit . 
" I find building a new home again rather exciting . 
It 's a challenge you know . 
And I like a challenge . " 
DRAWBACK 
KATHARINE WORSLEY , the Duke of Kent 's fiance2e , made her first public appearance with the Queen in a theatre outing last night . 
And unwittingly , poor girl , she committed a minor social sin . 
Her deep red dress , I 'm told by the women with an eye for these things , clashed with the Queen 's black and plum sequined dress . 
She also discovered one of the drawbacks of royal protocol : she was n't able to sit with her fiance2 . 
The Duchess of Kent sat between them . 
Also in the party were Prince Philip and Princess Alexandra . 
The play at the Vaudeville Theatre ? 
Appropriately "The Bride Comes Back . " 
OLD BOYS 
ONE of London 's odder reunions took place last night . 
Herr Reinhold Eggers , a former German schoolmaster who was the security officer at Colditz Castle , the camp for important prisoners of war , met up with some of his " old boys . " 
He had dinner with Group Captain Douglas Bader at his London mews house . 
" I had tea occasionally with him at Colditz , " said Herr Eggers urbanely . 
" I always admired his spirit . " 
Earlier I had joined him and Pat Reid , the British escape officer at Colditz , for a drink in a Knightsbridge pub . 
Herr Eggers has a sense of humour but has never , apparently , lost his schoolmasterly sense of pained surprise that his " boys " did not abide by the rules . 
" Now Reid , " he said , " was one of my biggest headaches . 
When he escaped I was hauled over the coals and almost wished I had escaped with him . " 
The habit of Reid 's which Eggers found most infuriating was when he sat in his punishment cell blowing derisive blasts of his trumpet during roll call . 
" I ca n't understand Lord Harewood 's interest in music after Reid 's performance . " 
The Earl of Harewood was another of his prisoners . 
" A splendid fellow , " said Eggers . 
COOKING 
PRETTY 24-year-old Vanessa Marsh , whose father , Mr. Marcus Marsh , trained horses for the late Aga Khan , has deserted the heaths of Newmarket for the kitchens of the officers ' club at Catterick Camp . 
She lives in as a £6 10s-a-week assistant cook , preparing lunch and dinner for the officers . 
Vanessa , who two years ago was to be seen dancing with Mr. Martin Parsons , half-brother of Mr. Antony Armstrong-Jones , tells me : " I got tired of riding horses and wanted a change . 
And I 'd taken a cookery course . " 
LANDLORD 
FROM the juke box Elvis Presley throbbed "Are You Lonesome Tonight ? " 
And on the table-tennis table the portly gentleman in baggy tweeds finished his game with an adroit smash which landed the ball smack in the face of his 16-year-old shop-assistant opponent . 
The Duke of Norfolk , Earl Marshal of England , in slightly unaccustomed surroundings , was opening a new coffee bar at the Arundel youth club last night . 
The club has 80 members and two rules : no credit and no obscene language . 
And since the duke is the landlord of the building ( rent 1s. a year ) he was the obvious choice as guest of honour . 
The duke obviously enjoyed his table tennis ( "We have a table at the castle and I play with the children " ) , but Presley left him unimpressed . 
" I am a bit old , " he explained almost apologetically , " for that sort of thing . " 
Princess 's new house gets £70,000 refit 
THAT 'S an end to all those rumours about jobs in the Commonwealth for Princess Margaret and Mr. Antony Armstrong-Jones . 
After all , no one — not even the Ministry of Works — spends £70,000 on doing up a house if the occupiers are about to go abroad for a few years . 
It is clear that the Princess and her husband are settling down in London and for this purpose 1a , Kensington Palace ( above ) is well suited . 
The house , in the south wing of Clock Court , is one of Sir Christopher Wren 's finest examples of domestic architecture . 
It was built about 1690 . 
The front door leads out into the court , giving the couple far more privacy than they have at No. 10 . 
It will take 18 months to put No. 1a in habitable order . 
It suffers from bomb damage , dry rot , bad plumbing , and inefficient heating . 
The money to be spent on Princess Margaret 's new home is only a fraction of a £360,000 plan to give the Royal Family and their staffs up-to-date accommodation . 
William Hickey Now young Mr. Clore heads for the top 
MR . 
CHARLES CLORE , The Whitechapel tailor 's son who , by his own ability , has become Britain 's best-known man of property , seems to have passed some of his own brilliance on to his son . 
At an age when most schoolboys are merely preparing for the G.C.E. , 16-year-old Alan Evelyn Clore has been accepted for Lincoln College , Oxford . 
A fairly remarkable achievement , but I am told that young Clore has a very lively mind . 
His school friends at Le Rosay School in Switzerland ( the old boys include the Duke of Kent , the Shah of Persia , and the Aga Khan ) describe him as a very likeable lad . 
He has been admitted to Lincoln College without taking an examination because , I am told , his school work was so outstanding . 
A spokesman for the college says : " He has been accepted as a Commoner for the academic year beginning in 1962 . " 
Mr. Clore adds the information , proud as any parent would be , that his son will study philosophy , politics , and economics . 
After taking his degree he will read for the Bar . 
Mr. Clore 's marriage to his French-born wife Francine was dissolved in 1957 . 
Their two children Alan and his sister Vivien , who is two years younger , were made wards of court in the previous year . 
There have been suggestions recently of a reconciliation . 
Mrs. Clore , who lives in Paris , is at the moment staying in London . 
But Mr. Clore describes the stories as " a lot of nonsense . " 
And his ex-wife tells me her visit is to shop and see her doctor and dentist . 
FLYING OUT 
NINE-YEAR-OLD Christina Onassis , daughter of Mr. Aristotle Onassis and his ex-wife Mme. Tina Livanos , left England for Paris yesterday after a few days in Oxford where she has been visiting her mother , who is in hospital recovering from a ski-ing accident . 
Christina was driven from Oxford to London Airport in a grey Jaguar — accompanied by her nanny , Miss Lehane . 
At the airport they went aboard the aircraft an hour before the other passengers . 
WANTED : A STAR 
MADAME LILY PAYLING , the Australian contralto who many times packed the Royal Albert Hall before the war , is looking for a British singer to make into a star . 
Mme. Payling , who now teaches in London , started the Payling Musical Society after the war . 
Through it she encouraged many an unknown singer from obscurity to concert status . 
Qualifications required , apart from a good voice ? 
" Patience and a lot of hard work , " she said last night . 
GOLF BARGAIN 
IT is an object lesson in the concessions one has to make after marriage . 
Former Wimbledon champion Budge Patty marries on April 5 in Switzerland when some of his London friends will be flying out there . 
At 36 he is giving up full-time tennis , but fears that he will still be too good to be given a game by his wife . 
And his 26-year-old fiance2e Macina Sfezzo who has lived most of her life in Switzerland is an expert skier — far better than Patty is likely to become now . 
So they have struck a bargain . 
Both have started to play golf . 
Patty got the idea when he was given a set of clubs for a wedding present . 
To his surprise he has discovered that although he plays tennis right-handed he plays golf left-handed . 
Cavanagh designs for Katharine 
JOHN CAVANAGH , the crinkle-faced Irishman who started his career " picking up pins in a Paris salon " and is now London 's leading couturier , has been chosen by Katharine Worsley to design her wedding-dress of the year for her marriage to the Duke of Kent . 
Said Cavanagh , 46 and for years the favourite designer of Princess Alexandra and the Duchess of Kent : " This is one of the most thrilling things that has happened to me since my shop opened nine years ago . " 
Mr. Cavanagh has already met Miss Worsley at Kensington Palace to talk over ideas . 
Paul Tanfield As Tony and topper make an Ascot debut ... 
THE GRANDSTAND ELITE PLAY ONE-UPMANSHIP 
IT was 6.55 yesterday morning when the Duke of Norfolk wandered across the green lawns of Ascot . 
The new £1,000,000 stand that he had watched rise , brick-by-brick , was clouded with rain . 
And the wind had littered the paddock with leaves . 
His Grace ordered the leaves to be removed and the sweepers came out . 
He prodded the turf and announced that the going would be " a little soft . " 
But he looked hopefully at the sky and guessed that all would come well . 
LUNCH CONTEST 
All did . 
The weather decided to co-operate and Ascot 1961 opened in all its glory . 
The crazy costumes and ridiculous hats ... 
The Royal Family driving up the course ... 
Antony Armstrong-Jones making his Ascot debut ( he and Princess Margaret were on their honeymoon during the meeting last year ) . 
This year there are two sports at Ascot . 
There is the horse-racing — and there is the one-upmanship in the boxes of the new grandstand . 
Butlers and waitresses join in the second game along with those who have taken the boxes . 
They vie with each other to produce the most impressive lunch . 
This is more difficult than it may seem , for the Ascot caterers provide all the food . 
So it is the same for everyone — from Charles Clore to the Maharanee of Baroda , from Lew Grade to Lord Cornwallis . 
PASS THE MUSTARD 
Yesterday it was melon and smoked salmon and lobster or a cold collation ( pronounced coalition by at least half the waitresses I spoke to ) and strawberries and cream . 
Then there were wines to order . 
Most people had champagne — of course . 
Mrs. John Valentine arrived from Sunbury-on-Thames clutching her cartwheel hat in one hand and a pot of mustard in the other . 
" I always like my mustard made with sherry , " she explained . 
She was n't going to risk having the watered kind . 
HYLTON 'S WINE 
Jack Hylton brought his own wine . 
A few doors down the corridor someone had brought a lace tablecloth to replace the damask ones provided . 
John Topliss-Smith came with a laundry hamper containing crab — a present for his host . 
" Everyone seems to have lobster , " he said , " but really crab is much nicer . 
" The laundry basket ? 
It 's the done thing to carry food about in a hamper , is n't it ? 
And I did n't actually have another hamper . " 
On went the one-upmanship . 
Knowing something of the advantages of a good display , sales consultant Major Cyril Dennis had pink and white carnations sent down to Ascot to replace the sweet peas and cornflowers provided in each box . 
Before anyone arrived in Charles Clore 's box part of the flower display had disappeared " borrowed " for another box . 
There was some swift china-changing , too . 
Someone slipped into Lord Moynihan 's box and swapped a cracked plate for a sound one there . 
And since it was all regulation red and white Ascot crockery , no one could do much about it . 
George St. John Ervine arrived bearing a silver cigarette box . 
An impressive touch , this . 
" I was asked to bring it along , " he told me blandly , " to make the place seem a bit more like home . 
" After all , when you come to Ascot you do n't want to feel you are picnicking , do you ? " 
And of course the family is delighted 
It was the happiest moment of Royal Ascot . 
The Queen 's three-year-old filly Aiming High had won the Coronation Stakes — her Majesty 's first Ascot success since 1959 . 
And the Royal Family , clearly delighted , went down to the unsaddling enclosure . 
All the more reason for celebration last night when the Queen gave her Ascot guests an evening out . 
They occupied the front two rows of Windsor 's Theatre Royal balcony to see the new musical of " Jane Eyre . " 
Among the guests — that eligible bachelor Nicholas Eden , 30-year-old son of Sir Anthony . 
He sat next to Princess Alexandra . 
We're-all-human quote : During the interval the Queen was heard to ask : " Please tell me , someone , has this got a happy or a sad ending ? 
I quite forget . " 
Paul Tanfield Fabiola regrets ... but baby is still unofficial THE STATE VISIT OFF — FOR " HER STATE OF HEALTH " 
IT is not altogether surprising that the Belgian royal family so often seems to find itself at loggerheads with its subjects . 
Even royal babies , usually a source of national rejoicing , seem to drive a wedge between King Baudouin and his people . 
There was that rumpus last week when the Pope let slip the news that Queen Fabiola is expecting a baby . 
But , despite the row , no official announcement followed . 
Yesterday the baby was ( unofficially ) in the news again . 
King Baudouin and his queen postponed next month 's State visit to London . 
But nobody was prepared to admit ( officially ) that the baby was the reason . 
The king 's counsellors couched their communique in vague terms . 
It merely said : " The queen 's state of health and the care it requires led King Baudouin and Queen Fabiola to express the wish that the visit be postponed . " 
Not a word about the baby . 
I asked a Brussels palace spokesman if the queen 's "state of health " meant what everybody knew it meant . 
NO NEWS 
" Of course , " he said , " but we can not say so officially . 
We can only refer to the queen 's state of health . 
" The fact that the queen is expecting a baby will not be official until an official announcement has been made . " 
Even our own Queen did not mention the baby when she sent a telegram to King Baudouin . 
Taking its tone presumably from Brussels , it said simply : " I and my husband are so sorry that we shall not be able to welcome your majesties to London in July . 
" We hope soon to hear good news of Queen Fabiola 's health and send you both our best wishes . " 
In Belgium last night , Queen Fabiola 's subjects were hoping that they , too , might hear some good news about her health . 
Well , some news , anyway ... 
SURVIVAL 
Wilfred Noyce , mountaineer , writer and schoolmaster , who was in Sir John Hunt 's Everest expedition in 1953 , is giving up his job as an assistant master at Charterhouse , the Surrey public school , to concentrate on writing . 
His book South Col described the successful assault on Everest , and now , I understand , Heinemann will soon be publishing his latest mountaineering book . 
It deals with the Anglo-American Karakoram expedition which he led last year . 
The new life looks promising for Mr. Noyce . 
His wife , Rosemary , told me that Heinemann have also asked him to write a book on survival — he published an article on the survivors of the Agadir earthquake in French Morocco last year — and Nelson have commissioned him to edit an atlas of the world 's mountain ranges . 
Another book , on survival in concentration camps , may follow later . 
Altogether , it looks as if the ex-schoolmaster will have no difficulty in surviving himself . 
Take your pick , says Stokowski 
THAT former fire-eating conductor Leopold Stokowski is a mellowed man these days . 
In fact , when I talked to him yesterday after his rehearsals for Sunday 's concert with the Philharmonia Orchestra , he told me of his remarkable experiment in orchestral democracy . 
Time was when this great disciplinarian of the rostrum — as fierce as Toscanini in a rage — had his own starch-like ideas about orchestral positioning . 
But this week he is allowing the Philharmonia players to decide for themselves where they sit . 
" We try my way and then their way , " said Stokowski . 
" Then they will vote on it . 
" If they decide that their way will give a better concert I shall just say "O.K. — let's have the good concert . " " 
He shook his white head and insisted : " But you know , on matters of intonation and the technicalities I am still more than a martinet — I 'm a martinetissimo ! " 
London-born Stokowski , now 79 , has a reputation for highly individual interpretations . 
But he is quite prepared , these days , to be hissed by those who do n't approve . 
As he says : " If a man accepts applause when people like what he does he should be man enough to accept hissing from people who do n't like it . " 
ASCOT ENVY 
THEY already have the Kentucky Derby . 
Now the Americans would like to imitate inimitable Ascot . 
Mrs. Evelyn Sharp , widow , hotel owner , and millionairess , is here on behalf of the New York State Racing Commission to investigate the subtleties of this distinctly British occasion . 
" We have our stylish races in America , of course , " she told me . 
" But Ascot has an image of its own . 
We think of it as something special . 
The fashions , the parties ... everything . " 
The Duke of Kent hires a honeymoon plane COMPLETE WITH HOT AND COLD RUNNING MUSIC ... 
The Duke of Kent is going on the second stage of his honeymoon , to Majorca , in a £420,000 aircraft known as " the Rolls-Royce of the air , " which he has chartered through Hughie ( Double Your Money ) Green . 
The plane is a demonstration model of the 350-m.p.h . 
Grumman Gulfstream , the executive aircraft which has already been bought by such connoisseurs of luxury travel as Greek shipping millionaire Stavros Niarchos and Fiat millionaire Umberto Agnelli . 
The Duke 's plane , N358AA , is the one in which Mr. Green , trying to quadruple his money through his partnership in an aircraft distributing firm , flew the Atlantic earlier this year . 
It has since been on a 70,000-mile tour of 25 countries in Europe , the Middle East and Africa , during which it was flown by King Hussein of Jordan . 
SNACKS ... 
The Duke and his new Duchess will travel in comfort . 
The 24ft. passenger cabin is fitted with a thick royal blue carpet . 
It has seating for 12 — in cosily-padded swivel armchairs . 
The plane has hot and cold running water , a galley where snacks and hot drinks can be whipped up , a roomy wardrobe , and a handsome cocktail cabinet . 
And , { 6en route , the couple will be able to enjoy the strains of I 'd Do Anything For You , Dear , Anything , and music from other current London musicals . 
... AND STEREO 
Arthur Willcox , spokesman for the firm which makes the plane told me : " The plane has a built-in stereo tape-recorder which can play for the whole four hours it will take to fly to Majorca . 
" We are recording hits from the London shows on it . 
We understand the Duke likes them . " 
I understand it was Air Commodore Sir Edward Fielden , Captain of the Queen 's Flight , who recommended the aircraft to the Duke after seeing it at the Paris Air Show . 
" This plane is purely a demonstration model , " said Mr. Willcox . 
" We do n't normally do charters . 
But we are naturally honoured that the Duke should have chosen our plane and happy to oblige him . " 
The Duke and Duchess are expected to fly from Birkhall in Scotland , where they have spent the first part of their honeymoon , to London on Sunday . 
It is likely that they will take off for Majorca on Monday . 
AMERICAN PILOT 
The Grumman , an American plane with 24 p.c . 
British components , will be flown by an American , Captain Mike Guididas , who is the Atlantic Aviation Corporation 's senior pilot . 
BITTER FIGHT 
Prince William of Gloucester , apparently the only member of the Royal Family allowed to travel abroad without an escort , spurned even V.I.P. treatment at Southend Airport yesterday . 
He was off to Calais with a friend , Nicholas Tollemache , son of Lord Tollemache , and a new car , a Sunbeam Rapier convertible . 
But when the airport commandant , Bernard Collins , invited him into the special lounge — cool , quiet and empty — the Prince turned him down and went to fight for a ham sandwich and a half of bitter in the bar . 
He had to wait five minutes before being served . 
Afterwards , drinking his bitter , he explained that he would be away for about a month or six weeks . 
" We are going to Paris for a few days , " he said . 
" Then making for Greece via Yugoslavia . 
" We have n't booked up anywhere . 
We shall just go where the mood takes us . " 
Today 's the day for Bacall 
Lauren Bacall , widow of Humphrey Bogart , is to marry in Vienna today — providing some missing documents arrive in time from America . 
She and her fiance , actor Jason Robards , had planned a secret wedding yesterday . 
TUDOR SURPRISE IN TREASURY OFFICE WORK 30FT . 
LONG WALL AND TURRET 
Reconstruction work on the Treasury offices in Whitehall , which has been going on for some months behind masses of scaffolding on the street side and high wooden fences on Horse Guards Parade , has surprised the Ministry of Works by the amount of Tudor brickwork it has revealed . 
The most impressive discovery is a length of wall , 30ft. by 16ft. , roughly parallel with Whitehall , which includes a great stone window 20ft. high and 8ft. broad . 
This is part of the west wall of the great hall , later converted into a tennis court , which Henry 8 built as an adjunct to Whitehall Palace for the recreation of his court . 
The north-west turret of the building , standing to a height of at least 40ft. , has also been uncovered , its upper part faced with a decorative pattern of flint and stone . 
IRON REINFORCEMENT 
The east front of the hall , abutting on to Whitehall , was demolished by Sir Charles Barry when he rebuilt the Treasury offices in 1847 , but he is credited now with unsuspected forbearance in having left so much of the west front on the park side . 
Indeed , the way in which Barry reinforced the floors with iron albeit at the expense of thrusting the iron into Tudor window arches — is assumed by some experts to indicate that he was deliberately striving to preserve the west wall of Henry 8 's hall . 
Another , but smaller , tennis court which stood near the great hall was destroyed in the eighteenth century except for its north end wall . 
This wall has now been freed from the plaster that has covered it through the centuries . 
Today it stands to almost its full height , with its original windows , of which one , on the ground floor , retains its Tudor ironwork . 
A two-storeyed gallery , connecting the great hall and the smaller tennis court , was known to have survived all rebuilding operations in this part of Whitehall . 
But the stripping of its wall coverings has now revealed most of the original window openings and , incidentally , proved that some of the so-called Tudor windows incorporated in rebuilding operations were fakes . 
In the upper part of the gallery this is clearly demonstrated by a stone Tudor fireplace now uncovered being considerably out of the line of these sham Tudor windows . 
COCKPIT PASSAGE 
The lower part of the gallery — it was known in former times as Cockpit Passage by reason of its leading to the long vanished Tudor cockpit — has remained in fair shape though cluttered inordinately with pipes , cabling and all the modern apparatus of a basement given over to heating and lighting . 
Eventually it will be cleared of these things and tidied up to become once more a decent historical passage . 
When the present reconstruction is completed — probably by August , 1962 — there will be incorporated in the new Treasury offices part of the wall of the Tudor hall and one of its great windows at the end of a series of corridors . 
The end wall of the small tennis court overlooks Treasury Green , in the middle of which stands a noble plane tree . 
When once again people are allowed to walk from Downing Street to Horse Guards Parade through Treasury Passage they will see the wall of the small tennis court and the exterior of Cockpit Passage . 
The original estimate for the reconstruction of the Treasury offices was £750,000 but it is expected that that figure may be considerably exceeded . 
BENCH REJECT PLEA OVER HANDCUFFS FOUR MEN ACCUSED OF BANK ROBBERY 
Cardiff Magistrates yesterday rejected an application that two of four men in the dock should be allowed to have their hands free and not handcuffed to one another . 
The four men were charged jointly with breaking and entering Lloyds Bank in Cardiff between January 14 and January 16 and stealing £9,465 and other property including watches and jewelry . 
Before the Court were : Colin David Baldwin , aged 26 , of Braunton Avenue , Llanrumney , Cardiff ; Albert Augustus King , aged 32 , of Southmead , Bristol ; Maurice Charles Harry , aged 32 , of Northam Avenue , Llanrumney , Cardiff ; and James Bernard Powell , aged 32 , of Penarth Road , Cardiff . 
" COURT HEAVILY GUARDED " 
They were also jointly charged with stealing a car belonging to Herbert Arthur Peel at Bristol between January 1 and January 2 . 
King and Baldwin were handcuffed together , with Harry on one side and Powell the other side . 
Mr. C. Stuart Hallinan , defending King , asked that the handcuffs should be removed . 
" This court is very heavily guarded and King is prepared to give an undertaking that he will make no attempt to escape " , he said . 
Mr. K. Rees , for Baldwin , made a similar application . 
Mr. D. A. Roberts Thomas , for the prosecution , opposing the application , said that when arrested King had stated that he would not be in custody for long . 
The two men ought to be held in restraint because of the danger of escape . 
Mr. Thomas said that entry to the strong room was gained by blowing a hole through the 18in. thick side wall . 
More than £3,000 had not been recovered . 
A fifth man , whose identity was known , was involved but not before the Court . 
The hearing was adjourned until today . 
THE CITY 'S SHOPS CUT BY HALF SINCE 1939 " FIRM STAND BEING TAKEN WITH DEVELOPERS " 
There has been a decrease of 53 per cent in the number of shops in the City of London since 1939 and 18 per cent in the number of restaurants , it was stated by counsel for the Corporation of London at an inquiry yesterday into an appeal heard by a Ministry of Housing and Local Government inspector . 
Winmor Properties Ltd. appealed against a condition imposed by the corporation that provision must be made for the incorporation of shops in at least two-thirds of the frontage in a project for rebuilding Nos. 35 , 37 and 39 , Moorgate as offices . 
Mr. S. M. Haines , architect for the developers , said the building proposed would be of seven storeys with provision for a car park . 
If shops were incorporated in the development they would be small and spoil the building both architecturally and economically . 
The building was intended as an office block . 
Mr. W. J. Glover , for the corporation , said it was the policy of the Town Planning Committee that existing shops and restaurants should be replaced in new development . 
Mr. H. A. Meeland , planning officer to the corporation , said there had been a great tendency by developers to omit shops from their plans and the corporation were having to take a firm stand in the matter . 
The inquiry was concluded . 
FORMER HOSPITAL SOLD FOR £7,600 TRING 'S CAMPAIGN OVER PROPERTY FAILS FROM OUR ESTATES CORRESPONDENT TRING Feb. 21 
More than 100 local residents crowded into Church House here today to attend an auction sale at which the former Tring Isolation Hospital was finally knocked down to a London financial firm for £7,600 . 
It went to Mr. A. J. Cruickshank , an estate agent of Berkhamsted , acting for Bland and Company ( Investments ) Ltd. , of Wimpole Street , London . 
The final figure compares with a price of £5,000 at which the buildings were originally offered to the council by the Ministry of Health , the present vendors , when the hospital became redundant and which was refused by the council . 
The sale marks the apparent end of a lengthy campaign for the hospital buildings to be returned to the town for at the most a nominal sum . 
Originally a gift to the townspeople by Lord Rothschild in 1901 , the hospital was taken over under the National Health Act in 1948 but soon afterwards was closed as a hospital and has since been used partly for storage purposes and also to accommodate a hospital board official . 
When the Ministry decided to dispose of the buildings they were first offered to the council at the district valuer 's figure of £5,000 . 
It was stated that the Ministry had no power to return the property to the council at no cost . 
HEAVY ATTENDANCE 
At the sale , conducted by Knight , Frank and Rutley , local feelings were shown by the heavy attendance rather than by indecorous behaviour , and bidding which started at £2,000 , rose rapidly to £6,000 , mainly by £25 and £50 advances , changing to £100 advances in the final stages . 
The buyer declined to give any indication of the future of the buildings , which lie on a site of just over two acres and include a five-bedroomed detached house , two small hospital blocks and various outbuildings . 
Planning permission has been given in the past for the conversion of the two ward blocks into residential accommodation , but the site lies in an area of high landscape value , which would make extensive development unlikely . 
Mr. F. J. Bly , chairman of Tring Urban District Council , who with a number of other councillors attended the sale , said afterwards that the whole procedure which had culminated in the sale had been grossly unjust . 
" It was given to the town as a gift , " he said , " and should have been returned . 
" PRESS COUNCIL MEMBER RESIGNS CLASH ON " CHATTERLEY " CASE FROM OUR CORRESPONDENT BOLTON , Feb. 21 
Mr. Frank Singleton , editor of the Bolton Evening News , and president of the Guild of British Newspaper Editors , has resigned from the Press Council . 
At its last meeting the council expressed disapproval of the handling of the Lady Chatterley 's Lover case by The Guardian , The Observer , and The Spectator . 
Mr. Singleton wrote a letter to The Guardian dissociating himself from this action . 
Mr. Singleton said tonight that Mr. George Murray , the chairman of the Press Council , had written to him , saying that the council would almost certainly regard him as responsible for a breach of confidence , and that since he had made his views known without informing the council , he ( Mr. Murray ) intended to mention the matter in a letter to The Guardian . 
In his letter of resignation Mr. Singleton wrote to Mr. Murray : " Rightly or wrongly I felt justified in correcting the impression in the statement issued to the press that the opinion of the council was unanimous ... 
It is with sincere regret that I sever my association with the council on which I have always thought it a great honour to serve . " 
ETON RATE RELIEF TOWN NOT AFFECTED , SAYS MR . 
BROOKE 
The rating of public schools was a matter on which the Commons as a whole should express an opinion , Mr. Mitchison ( Kettering , Lab. ) said yesterday when the Standing Committee on the Rating and Valuation Bill continued its discussion on an Opposition amendment to rate public schools fully rather than give them 50 per cent relief . 
Mr. Mitchison said that a large public school in an urban district was anomalous . 
He hoped to raise the matter at a later stage . 
The amendment was withdrawn . 
In a general discussion on clause 8 , which concerns the reduction and remission of rates payable by charitable and other organizations , Mr. Brooke , Minister of Housing and Local Government , said that boarding schools — though there were exceptions — tended to be in the country in rating areas which were not wealthy . 
Therefore in many cases any effect of loss of rates due to the mandatory 50 per cent derating would be made up by rate deficiency grant . 
MADE UP BY GRANT 
In the case of Eton , which had attracted some attention , though there might be some marginal effect on the county rate , so far as he could ascertain there would be no effect on the urban district council rate , because any loss of rate through mandatory relief would be fully made up by deficiency grant . 
Mr. Brooke said that there was a weakness in the case for assisting such bodies as learned societies by rate relief because it meant that local people would have to put their hands deeper into their pockets . 
If any such bodies could establish their claim for relief by means of further contribution from the Exchequer , that would lie outside the scope of the Bill . 
The clause was approved and the committee adjourned until tomorrow . 
CHARGES AGAINST LONDON VICAR TO FACE CONSISTORY COURT 
A consistory court will sit in London next month to hear charges against Dr. W. Bryn Thomas , Vicar of the Church of the Ascension Balham Hill , S.W. Missing girl found in attic HUNT FOR A GINGER-HAIRED MAN 
ELEVEN-YEAR-OLD Nancy O'Brien , the girl who was missing from her home for four days , was kept locked in an attic , it was revealed yesterday . 
As Nancy haltingly told the story of her four-day ordeal to police last night , another great search began ... this time for a ginger-haired man the police thought might be able to help in their enquiries . 
Nancy , who had been missing from her home at Burneside , Westmorland , since last Thursday , was found yesterday in the locked attic of a house in Chambres-road , Southport , Lancs . 
Hysterical 
The windows of the attic were boarded over . 
Nancy was wild-eyed and hysterical ... and shoeless . 
But she was unharmed . 
Last night she was reunited at Southport police station with her aunt and uncle , Mr. and Mrs. Gibson , with whom she lives at Burneside . 
Last night , too , the police announced : "We want to interview Horatio Richard Seddon , 28 , who can possibly help us in our enquiries . " 
The police statement added : " We have alerted Interpol [ the international police organisation ] and all ports and airports in our effort to trace this man . " 
A police description of Seddon said he was about 5ft. 10in. to 6ft. , long-legged , very slim , ginger-haired and wearing tortoiseshell glasses . 
No Reply 
He was believed to be driving an old-type black Standard 14 saloon number ZH2014 . 
This was how little Nancy was found yesterday at the house in Chambres-road ... 
At about 11 a.m. screams of " Help ! " were heard by Mrs. Winifred Hoyles , 28 , who lives next door . 
She was playing with her three-year-old daughter , Julie , at the time . 
Mrs. Hoyles said later : " I went next door and shouted , but I got no reply and thought that perhaps I was hearing things . 
" I listened again , and it WAS someone screaming for help ... 
" The cries seemed to come from the attic windows . 
" I could see these windows were barricaded with boards , which seemed to be nailed across . 
" I rushed downstairs ... telling Julie we were just playing a game , so that she would not get upset . 
" Ladder 
"I went down into the street and stopped two men . 
They began to get a ladder to put up to the attic window , and I went to call for the police . 
" The police and the fire brigade arrived and they broke a window and got into the house . 
" I made a cup of cocoa and took it to the attic ... and there was this girl , wearing a green blazer and a dress . 
She was in her stockinged feet . 
" There were tins of food all over the floor , and there were women 's magazines scattered around . 
There were also pieces of bread . 
There was no bed in the room — only a mattress . 
" Nancy said a man had left her in the attic on Thursday . 
She told me : 
" He took my shoes away and said it did n't matter how much I screamed because no one would come . 
" Screaming 
"He locked the door and I could n't get out . 
I 've been screaming all the time , and I 've been eating out of tins . " 
Police thought last night that Nancy 's screams had not been heard because of thick red-and-white-striped wallpaper which was plastered over the boards nailed against the attic windows . 
As far as Nancy was concerned , there might have been no window at all in the room . 
The only light was from an electric bulb . 
So , for four days , she did not know the difference between night and day . 
12 MINUTES OF THE DUKE ON TV 
THE Duke of Edinburgh made a twelve-minute appearance on BBC television last night — and looked more relaxed than his interviewer , Richard Dimbleby . 
It was the Duke 's first interview on British TV and he came across like an unflurried man having a cosy fireside chat . 
This pre-recorded interview was for the weekly programme "Panorama . " 
It was concerned with the Commonwealth Technical Training Week which opened yesterday . 
The aim of the Week 's campaign is to draw attention to the need for technical training . 
Twenty-eight Commonwealth countries are taking part and in this country 188 local councils have helped to arrange special events to boost the campaign . 
In his TV interview the Duke was obviously enthusiastic about the whole project . 
Difficult 
And he had a lot to say about Britain 's unskilled workers . 
There were not enough people in industry , he said , who were technically trained . 
He added : " By far the most difficult problem is this tremendous attraction of relatively highly paid jobs for unskilled people . " 
Anyone who went into unskilled work , he said , went in at the rate for the job , regardless of age . 
What many parents did not seem to realise was that a relatively high wage now might be a rather poor one in after years . 
Britain , said the Duke , could not hope to compete in foreign markets if industry went on using unskilled labour . 
The Duke pointed out that of 550,000 school leavers aged from fifteen to seventeen , who started work last year , only 130,000 took SKILLED jobs . 
Snapped Up 
" There are all too many people who say : "Well , we 're not going to bother to train anybody in our industry because they 'll promptly get snapped up by another industry , " " the Duke added . 
During the training Week , factories all over the country will be holding " open days " to show their apprenticeship schemes to school leavers and their parents . 
A MAN WHO DOES FOUR JOBS 
A BARRISTER told a court yesterday about the man with four jobs . 
This , Mr. Anthony McCowan told magistrates at Steyning , Sussex , is the working life of fifty-six-year-old Richard Gilroy : 
As a POULTRY FARMER he works till late afternoon . 
Then he turns to his problems as boss of a WINDOW-CLEANING business . 
Factory 
Five nights a week he works as a LATHE OPERATOR at a factory . 
In his spare time he becomes a HOME-HELP because his wife is paralysed 
His total income : About £22 a week . 
Mr. McCowan said Mr. Gilroy , father of two , worked so hard because his poultry business had not been doing too well . 
Gilroy , of Mill-hill , Shoreham , Sussex , admitted driving while under the influence of drink . 
He was fined £40 , was disqualified from driving for a year , and was ordered to pay £12 costs . 
BARONET 'S WIFE NAMED 
A BARONET 'S wife was alleged yesterday to have committed misconduct with a farmer . 
She is Lady ( Juliana ) Cunliffe-Owen , 32 , wife of Sir Dudley Cunliffe-Owen . 
In the Jersey Royal Court , Mrs. Diana Roberts , wife of farmer John Roberts , of St. Ouen , Jersey , sought a legal separation on the ground of her husband 's alleged adultery with Lady Cunliffe-Owen . 
In a counter-petition Mr. Roberts asked the court to dissolve his marriage and give him custody of their two children . 
What Labour is £acking .. 
By JAMES BEECROFT 
LABOUR 'S cash problems were discussed last night by Mr. Len Williams , the Party 's National Agent and Deputy General Secretary . 
The Party 's National Executive , he said , was considering ways of increasing Labour 's income . 
But whatever was done , the Party would never have funds on the Tory scale . 
Mr. Williams was talking to more than 300 Young Socialists attending their organisation 's national rally at Skegness , Lincs . 
He stressed that last year £213,000 of the Labour Party 's £250,000 income was contributed by the trades unions . 
The average contribution from individual Party members , he said , was only 4s. a year . 
" Even with the support of the unions , " he went on , " the amount of money we have today is not sufficient for our Party to do its job adequately . 
" Most of the Constituency Parties are always short of cash . 
Many of them are in debt for the last election . " 
The trades unions , said Mr. Williams , had not only been the main financial support of the Labour Party — they had been , through their steadiness , " the ballast which has kept the ship upright in heavy seas . " 
BLOW BY FATHER BLINDED HIS BABY An " inhuman man " gets six months 
A FATHER struck his six-month-old son across the face so hard that the baby will be blind for life , a court was told yesterday . 
The father , Charles Wildridge , told the magistrates at Hull , Yorks : " I lost my temper when he would not take his feed . " 
Wildridge , 37 , of Rimswell-road , Hull , pleaded guilty to assaulting and neglecting the baby , Michael , in a way likely to cause unnecessary suffering . 
He was gaoled for six months . 
" Severest " 
The chairman of the magistrates , Mr. J. H. Tarbitten , told Wildridge : " You are a most inhuman man . 
" As a result of striking the baby , he is blind for life . 
Any father who does that deserves the severest punishment . " 
Mr. J. F. Croft , prosecuting , said that because of family circumstances , Michael was kept in hospital for a time after his birth . 
When taken home , he was normal and healthy . 
Two months later Wildridge — who has five other children — took the baby to a doctor 's surgery and said : " He has had a bash in the face . " 
The doctor was out but his wife called an ambulance when she saw the child . 
She thought he was dying . 
Mr. Croft added that in hospital Michael was found to be blind in both eyes . 
Most of his face was bruised and X-rays showed that one leg had been broken but had healed . 
Temper 
Wildridge , who is unemployed , told the magistrates : " I was preparing a meal for my sick wife and the children were coming home from school . 
" When the baby would not take his feed I lost my temper . 
I have not neglected or ill-treated the child , and it did fall off a settee . " 
Gardener accused 
ANTHONY Reginald Hitchcock , 29 , was remanded in custody at Newport , Isle of Wight , yesterday , charged with the murder of John Clarence Neale , 35 , his partner in a jobbing gardening business run from their home , Parkside , Boulnor Park , near Yarmouth , Isle of Wight . 
Neale was found dead , with severe head injuries , in the garden of the house on Sunday . 
Hitchcock appeared in court handcuffed to a police officer . 
He covered his face with his free hand when the charge was read . 
The court was told that he had made a statement to the police . 
SHE FELL INTO HP " SNARE " 
A WIFE led a perfectly blameless life ... until she was " ensnared in the hire-purchase network , " a court was told yesterday . 
Said Mr. Patrick Mayhew at East Kent Quarter Sessions in Canterbury : " In this easy-come system , expensive goods came into her possession for small " down " payments . " 
Then , added Mr. Mayhew , the wife " succumbed to temptation " and sold hire-purchase goods so as to keep up the payments on them 
He went on : " The pace got hotter , and the whole nightmare of deceit collapsed . " 
£1,000 
Mr. Mayhew was defending the wife , Mrs. Mollie Joyce Hawkins , 31 , of Hamilton-road , Dover , on charges of theft and fraud . 
More than £1,000 worth of goods — including washing machines , TV sets and typewriters — were involved . 
Mrs. Hawkins mother of four children , was gaoled for fifteen months MORE GO ON STRIKE 
THERE were more strikes — and more people on strike — last year than in 1959 , but FEWER working days were lost , said the Ministry of Labour yesterday . 
There was a total of 2,849 strikes , compared with 2,105 in the previous year . 
The number of working days lost was 3,024,000 , compared with 5,270,000 in 1959 . 
There were more strikes in coal mining in 1960 than in any other industry — 1,666 stoppages , involving 171,000 men . 
The car industry had 129 stoppages — involving 122,000 men . 
Get cracking , Britain , says a union chief 
LACK of leadership , second-rate men in top jobs , and a general complacency in Britain were slammed yesterday by Mr. Ray Gunter , MP . 
He was making his presidential speech at the annual conference of the Transport Salaried Staffs ' Association at Folkestone , Kent . 
Britain , he said , could no longer afford to allow many leading positions in industry to be occupied by second-raters who were there only because of class and patronage Leadership 
Mr. Gunter , who is Labour MP for Southwark , London , insisted that the nation 's greatest need was dynamic , adventurous leadership . 
Politicians , trade unionists and businessmen should all "search their souls " and look ahead . 
LINER SINKS , BURNING Full death toll may never be known 
THE British liner Dara , abandoned after being gutted by fire in the Persian Gulf on Saturday , sank yesterday while being towed by the Glasgow tug Ocean Salvor . 
There was no one on board when she went down . 
Salvage vessels were being used in an attempt to beach the liner to let the fire die out completely before she was towed to Bahrein , but she sank in about 60ft of water five miles off shore . 
It is now estimated that 212 people lost their lives , but it will probably never be known how many Indians , Pakistanis and Arabs were travelling as deck passengers . 
Among those still missing are 30 of the crew , a few Europeans , and an American couple . 
All known survivors have been landed at Dubai or Bahrein . 
There is little hope of finding any more . 
Rumours that the fire was caused by a bomb have been discounted . 
Indications are that an explosion took place in a boiler space . 
£785,000 insurance 
The Dara , 5,030 tons , had more than 700 people aboard when she caught fire . 
She was owned by the British India Steam Navigation Co. , a subsidiary of the P. and O. Line . 
Three British frigates helped in the two-day battle to get the fire out , and it was planned to tow her into Bahrein yesterday . 
The insured value of the hull of the Dara was £785,000 . 
A proportion of this amount was taken by the owners , and was therefore uninsured . 
Of the remainder approximately £15,000 of the reinsurance was placed at Lloyds . 
The Ministry of Transport will fly out a senior engineer and surveyor today to make a preliminary investigation into the ship 's loss . 
A decision whether to hold a public inquiry in London will be taken after they report . 
2,000 stop as convener is suspended 
TWO THOUSAND workers at the American-owned Burroughs business machine factory at Cumbernauld , near Glasgow , struck yesterday when their convener was suspended along with two other shop stewards , the convener , Mr. Callaghan , was meeting the management over a pay dispute . 
He was suspended when he refused an ultimatum to operate the firm 's bonus system rejected by the workers . 
On Friday the men had decided to work to rule unless the firm reconsidered their claim for roughly £1 a week more . 
They claim the firm 's bonus system only pays flat-rate wages . 
Skilled workers average about £14 to £15 a week . 
Semi-skilled about £11 to £12 . 
Unskilled start at £9 5s . 
A mass meeting will be held outside the strike-picketed factory this morning . 
TEENAGE BAN ROW Thrasher quits the council 
BECAUSE he thinks an example should be made of teenage rowdies by " taking their breeches down and thrashing their backsides , " Mr. Peter Firth has resigned from the urban council at Stevenage , Herts , where teenagers were banned from the local cinema . 
Tory Mr. Firth , who is 39 , said yesterday in letters to the B.B.C. and Associated-Rediffusion , referring to their programmes on the cinema ban : 
" The aspect of this which appals me is that you took your cameras to the trouble-spot and to the cafes to which the lay-abouts were when not engaged in creating trouble . 
" What is the remedy ? 
Is it to spend more money on youth which we parents eventually have to pay ? 
I do not think so . 
I think we must teach by example ... 
" The thrashing need not be hard . 
The indignity of having their trousers taken down would be most salutary and effective . 
It is also imperative that we give back to our policemen the " teeth " that they once had . " 
THE " POOR PEASANTS " OF BRITAIN 
A QUARTER of Britain 's food is produced by small farmers , including hill farmers who are " little more than peasants , sweating out each day without thought or hope of tomorrow , " the Country Landowners ' Association was told yesterday . 
Giving a lecture in Cirencester ( Glos ) , Mr. Travers Legge , 1959 Fison Award winner , said there were 166,000 farms of under 20 acres . 
The hill farmer 's life was one of pointless , profitless drudgery , with " no money to spare for improvements to farm or home or even things which most of us take for granted . " 
If Britain could reach a stage at which the minimum was 35 to 40 acres of the better land , it would be able to offer competition in the Common Market " which no country in Europe could match . " 
"BANISH KILLER DUST " CALL BY WELSH PITS Daily Worker Reporter CARDIFF , Monday . 
A CALL for an all-out effort to banish the scourge of killer dust from the pits has been made by the executive council of the South Wales area of the National Union of Mineworkers . 
Drastic revision of the approved dust standard , which he says is not a safe standard , is urged by safety officer Linden James , writing in the current issue of the area 's magazine . 
" Publicity is the first necessity if we are to get the extraordinary measures implemented that are necessary to rid mining of dust disease , " says Mr. James . 
" Such measures will cost money and , as there is some reluctance to spend money , there will be resistance . " 
346 in a year 
Dust kills many more people than gas , bad roofs , haulage , explosives , electricity , and all the other hazards of the mines put together , he says . 
Between 1951 and 1958 in the whole of Great Britain 183 lives were lost as a result of explosions in the pits . 
In South Wales 346 died from dust in 1959 alone . 
Miners who had worked during the long period of "dust-approved conditions , " including younger men whose whole working lives were completely within the " suppression era , " had contracted the disease . 
In some coalfields dust was merely a nuisance . 
In South Wales it was a matter of life or death . 
Not an excuse 
Present approved standards could be achieved throughout the coalfield , and in many cases without difficulty . 
As the achievement of these standards was now the ultimate aim , " the standard has been reduced from an incentive to suppress dust to an excuse not to suppress it . " 
The existing standard was no longer effective , " and should therefore be discarded as a hindrance to progress , " says Mr. James . 
Urging a campaign for improved conditions , he asks the miners to set their own house in order and make full use of the suppressive equipment provided . 
" Dust kills ; if we make dust unnecessarily , we are killers , " he warns . 
POP & GAS BARON FOR AUSTRALIA Daily Worker Reporter 
THE Queen has appointed a Tory , aristocratic , soft drink , beer , insurance , gas light and coke , match , banking and estate company chief to be Governor-General of Australia . 
He is 51-year-old Viscount de l'Isle , V.C. , chosen to replace Lord Dunrossil , former Speaker of the House of Commons , who died in February . 
Lord de l'Isle 's appointment has caused a certain protocol confusion , with the Melbourne Herald announcing it first and congratulating Mr. Menzies , the Australian Prime Minister , on his " acceptable choice . " 
A little later yesterday Mr. Menzies said he was " delighted " with the appointment . 
Chief among the new Governor-General 's business connections has been the managing director 's post in Schweppes , balanced , of course , by a directorship in Courage and Barclays . 
He claims descent from the Elizabethan poet and hero Sir Philip Sidney . 
Early in the 19th century one of his ancestors named Shelley came into the Sidney property and had the name added by Royal Licence . 
Later he dropped the Shelley . 
An Anzio V C 
An Eton and Cambridge boy , he served with distinction in the Grenadier Guards , winning the V.C. at Anzio . 
He was Tory M.P . 
for Chelsea for a year at the end of the war , joint treasurer of the Conservative Party and — for four years — Secretary of State for Air . 
He followed the 3rd Baron de l'Isle , who married a daughter of the 4th Viscount Gort in 1902 and himself married the daughter of the 6th Viscount Gort in 1940 . 
They have four children . 
Australian Labour Party leader Arthur Calwell said yesterday : " There are many Australian citizens who will fill the office as well or better than Lord de l'Isle will fill it . " 
The Australian Labour Party 's attitude was that the Governor-General must be an Australian , Mr. Calwell added . 
This view was supported by the " overwhelming majority " of the Australian people . 
CID IN BREWERY SHARES QUIZ Daily Worker Reporter 
THE C.I.D . 
yesterday entered the mysterious situation surrounding the anonymous £21 million bid for the Liverpool brewing concern , Bents ' Breweries . 
Mr. T. Halton , Bents ' chairman , said he understood the City of London Police and Liverpool C.I.D . 
were " examining the whole matter . " 
Two C.I.D . 
officers saw him and asked him about the take-over . 
He told reporters that he welcomed the inquiries . 
The council of the Stock Exchange decided yesterday to allow the resumption of dealings in shares of the brewery . 
Unknown bidder 
Dealing were banned on Friday because of lack of information about the bidder , who still has not made himself known . 
Mr. Halton said that he was very pleased dealings had been resumed . 
" We did not stop dealings , but we are glad they were stopped , " he said . 
The brewery owns more than 500 pubs in the North-West . 
The bid was made known through Anglasi Nominees . 
When dealings restarted yesterday shares fell from the 47s 6d they reached last week . 
They closed at 42s . 
SUKARNO 'S CALL FROM BANDUNG 
PRESIDENT SUKARNO of Indonesia yesterday called for a full conference of Afro-Asian Powers . 
" Urge your Governments to agree to holding the conference , " he told delegates to the Council for Afro-Asian Solidarity , which opened a four-day meeting in Bandung . 
Major issues are expected to be the situations in West Irian , the Congo , Laos and Algeria . 
President Sukarno said : " West Irian is still under colonialism . 
Let us be united in the struggle against colonialism and imperialism for the establishment of a new world and world peace . " 
— Reuter . 
17 years in a home , she wins release 
THE National Council for Civil Liberties has won the first case it has taken up before the newly established Mental Health Review Tribunals . 
The patient , a single woman , aged about 30 , whose home is in Cornwall , is to be released from Rampton in a few days , the council announced yesterday . 
She had been in mental hospitals since 1944 and the council first took up her case in 1957 . 
The case was presented to the tribunal by one of the voluntary panel set up by the council to help patients wishing to appeal against their detention under the new Act . 
An officer of the council said it had hundreds of other cases on the files . 
Easier to hook a man in A D 2000 says registrar 
WOMEN should find it easier to get a husband in the coming years , the Registrar-General forecasts . 
But , if present trends continue , they are more likely to suffer a fatal accident in the home . 
The " surplus " of women over men in England and Wales — 1,510,000 in 1960 — will have fallen to only 404,000 by the year 2000 . 
By then , the Registrar-General says in his return for the quarter ending last December , the total population — 45,862,000 last June — will have risen to 55,646,000 . 
Marriage rate 
The marriage rate for 1960 — 15 people per 1,000 — was the same as in 1959 . 
In the third quarter of 1960 the rate of stillbirths and deaths of babies under a week old was 32 per 1,000 — the lowest recorded . 
Although the total of fatal accidents in the December quarter — 4,288 — was 75 fewer than in the previous December quarter , fatal accidents in the home rose from 1,650 to 1,684 . 
Of these 298 were from coal-gas poisoning . 
Only 19 people died from polio in the first nine months of 1960 , compared with 53 in the same period of 1959 . 
But there were three deaths from diphtheria — none in the previous period . 
Coventry to greet bomb march today Daily Worker Reporter COVENTRY , Monday 
TRADE union officials , shop stewards , trades council leaders , aldermen and councillors are among the local personalities who have urged support for the London to Holy Loch Polaris protest marchers when they arrive here after completing their 14-mile stint from Daventry tomorrow . 
Appealing to workers here to turn out to welcome the marchers , they say : " Throughout Britain indignation is growing at the cynical way in which the Government allows American bases to be set up in our land . " 
A meeting will be held at 12.45 p.m. in the heart of the Precinct , which has arisen out of the ruins of the city centre shattered by the bombs of the last war . 
Workers have been asked by officials and stewards of half a dozen different unions to obtain passouts from the factories to attend the meeting . 
" Rally in the Precinct at lunch-time to welcome the marchers and take your stand with all those who stand for peace , " says the statement . 
Striking tribute to achievement of Morris Daily Worker Reporter 
A COLOURFUL exhibition commemorating the centenary of a remarkable event opens today at the Victoria and Albert Museum , South Kensington . 
It is " Morris and Company 1861-1940 , " a tribute to Morris and his associates 100 years after they started their firm . 
On April 11 , 1861 , the seven young men , poets , painters , an architect , an engineer and a mathematician , launched their undertaking , which marked a new epoch in British cultural life . 
College servants join union at Cambridge By our Cambridge Correspondent 
The first trade union branch for college servants at Cambridge University was formed last night by 40 men and women — porters , gardeners , kitchen staff , and maintenance workers . 
Mr. A. Butterworth , assistant national officer of the National Union of Public Employees , who advised them on how to form the new branch , said afterwards that there were more than 1,000 men and women working in Cambridge colleges who had no agreements on pay or working conditions . 
" The union will strive to bring them all into membership and seek for them rights equal to those of similar workers in local government , the health services , and at other universities . 
From what I have already heard , the pay and conditions in Cambridge are below those operative under agreements we have elsewhere . " 
Mr. Butterworth added that one of the first tasks of the union would be to ask colleges to establish agreements . 
" Each college has autonomy . 
But perhaps the colleges may agree to some form of negotiating jointly . " 
NO CONTRIBUTION 
The Ministry of Housing and Local Government has rejected a proposal by Barnes borough council to contribute five guineas from the rates to the Fleming Memorial Fund for Medical Research . 
The Ministry considers that contributions to such a fund should be met from voluntary donations rather than from rates compulsorily levied . 
The day everything went backwards By our Luton Correspondent 
The South Eastern Electricity Board yesterday apologised to consumers in Leighton Buzzard , Beds. , because a technical error caused their electrical machinery to operate backward . 
The trouble started on Thursday afternoon with a fault on the main 33,000 volt transmission line and an attempt to end the three and a half hour blackout by temporarily linking secondary lines was abortive . 
Mr. Terry Lestor , production manager at a clothing factory , said : 
" Everything went haywire . 
A light came on warning that power was restored and the bench motors were started . 
Sewing machines worked backwards and the vacuum pressing plant instead of holding garments down blew them into the air . " 
Other factories sent workers home because there was no power . 
An electricity board spokesman said yesterday : " A letter of apology and explanation has gone to the major consumers . 
We have explained that a new supply system will come into use in 10 days and this should never happen again . " 
DRIVING BAN ON JUDGE Fined in drink case 
Judge David Eyfion Evans , a county court judge in the mid-Wales and Shropshire circuit , was fined £50 and disqualified from driving for 12 months yesterday for driving while under the influence of drink . 
Judge Evans , who appeared at Builth Wells , was ordered to pay £38 19s costs . 
His address was given as Plasgwyn , Aberedw , in Builth Wells . 
He pleaded guilty . 
Mr. D. Prys Jones , prosecuting , said that on September 22 , Judge Evans 's car collided with a stationary car at a cross-road at Howey . 
The other car was driven by a Mr. Elwyn Jones , who saw Judge Evans in the driving seat of his car looking dazed . 
He did not get out and did not answer Mr. Jones when he asked what he thought he was doing . 
The two cars were freed , and the judge reversed away . 
Mr. Jones again tried to speak to him , but without success . 
Mr. Jones followed the judge for over three miles , Mr. Prys Jones said . 
Both Mr. Jones and his son , who was with him , had said that the judge drove erratically . 
His speed varied from about 30 to 50 mph . 
Eventually the judge stopped and told Mr. Jones who he was . 
He got out of the car and Mr. Jones had said he staggered on the road . 
Mr. Jones supported him to stop him from falling . 
Eventually the judge agreed to allow Mr. Jones to drive him home in his own car , but on the way began to use threatening language , and tried to grapple with Mr. Jones . 
Mr. Jones stopped . 
Two police officers then arrived and one helped the judge towards the police car . 
Impeccable record 
County court Judge Rowe Harding , of Swansea , for the defence , said that he presided over a meeting of the mid-Wales and Herefordshire branch of the Magistrates ' Association at Llandrindod Wells which was attended by Judge Evans . 
He had "what appeared to be a bronchial cold . " 
Dr. John Emrys Jenkins , said he had attended Judge Evans since 1958 . 
His condition had resulted in outbursts of anger and he had been sharp in his tongue . 
" I am perfectly sure they were not the result of alcoholic drinking . " 
Dr. Jack Abbot Hobson , physician at the Middlesex Hospital , London , submitted a report on the judge 's condition . 
He said that on the morning of September 22 , Judge Evans took three bottles of light ale and a sherry with his lunch . 
In the afternoon he attended a meeting at Llandrindod Wells . 
He tried to appear normal , although he did not feel well . 
Dr. Hobson said that Judge Evans was examined at the Middlesex Hospital , and it was found he suffered from a condition which could produce symptoms of drunkenness , make him unsteady in his movements and in his eyes while his speech might be thick . 
It could also result in mental disturbances . 
Mr. Alun T. Davies , defending , said that the judge 's driving record was " impeccable . " 
Twelve months ago he passed the test for advanced motorists . 
There was no question of him driving again until his condition was remedied . 
Cashiers coshed and robbed near bank 
Two cashiers employed by Independent Milk Suppliers Ltd. were attacked by three or four men armed with coshes and robbed of about £2,000 at Elgin Avenue , Maida Vale , London , yesterday . 
They were knocked to the ground outside Barclays Bank . 
One cashier was taken to Paddington General Hospital for treatment . 
The gang escaped in a car , which was found abandoned nearby . 
Costs for Lord Mayor BYELECTION CASE DISMISSED 
The Manchester Stipendiary Magistrate ( Mr F. Bancroft Turner ) yesterday dismissed a summons against the Lord Mayor of Manchester ( Alderman Lionel Biggs ) alleging that , as returning officer at the Moss Side parliamentary byelection , he failed to discharge his statutory obligations by not being present on October 25 to receive nomination papers — handed in by Mr Walter Hesketh , the British Union Movement 's candidate . 
Mr Bancroft Turner awarded 20 guineas costs against Mr Hesketh as a contribution to the defence costs . 
Mr Hesketh said that on October 25 he and Mr Max Moseley , his agent , visited the town hall to deliver the nomination papers . 
The returning officer was not there and , for 5 minutes , town hall officials were unable to obtain the Lord Mayor . 
Mr Hesketh said : " For a long time we were wandering through the passages of the town hall until I was finally obliged to defer the submission of my nomination papers . " 
Matter of courtesy 
Mr F. P. R. Hinchliffe , for the Lord Mayor , said that Alderman Biggs , as returning officer , had the right to appoint a deputy — in this case the town clerk — who , in turn , was authorised to appoint deputies . 
Mr Moseley agreed with Mr Hinchliffe that Mr Hesketh had received an invitation from the Lord Mayor for all the candidates to attend the town hall with their nomination papers on Friday , October 27 . 
Mr Hinchliffe : " Was your reason for not accepting the invitation to appear on Friday because you did n't wish to be associated with the other candidates in any way ? — Yes , that was one reason . " 
Mr Hinchliffe said it had been a practice in the city , as a matter of courtesy , for the Lord Mayor , to extend an invitation to all the parliamentary candidates to attend at the town hall at a certain time with their nomination papers . 
It was done to prevent the returning officer or the acting returning officer from being incarcerated in a certain building from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on five successive days . 
Mr Moseley said that the election officer ( Mr Norman de Gruchy ) told him at the town hall on October 25 that he was no more authorised to accept nomination papers from Mr Hesketh than a corporation dustman . 
In evidence Mr de Gruchy said he did not recall saying he was not authorised to accept the nomination papers . 
In dismissing the summons , Mr Bancroft Turner said Mr Hesketh and Mr Moseley had been labouring under a sense of grievance and , to some extent , it was a legitimate grievance . 
The important consideration , however , was that if a member of the public wished to be nominated as a candidate between certain statutory dates at certain times , his position should be carefully safeguarded . 
Minister rejects corporation 's high street plan By our own Reporter 
A proposal by Southend Corporation for a second high street , parallel to the existing one , has been rejected by the Minister of Housing and Local Government , Dr Charles Hill . 
In a letter to the town clerk published yesterday , he says that the fundamental defect was that the street would serve both for shopping and as a through-traffic route and the mixture of functions would be a hindrance to traffic and a danger to pedestrians . 
The proposal formed part of a development plan for the town centre providing for the expansion of the shopping area , a civic centre , an office block area , a bus station , car parks and an inner ring road . 
A public inquiry held last year recommended that the scheme should be rejected . 
The Minister , however , has said that he is prepared to amend it to include all but the new high street and shopping area . 
A spokesman for the corporation said last night : " We have had the full text of the inspector 's report which runs to over 120 pages ... there will be a report to the next council meeting . " 
Mr HANNEN SWAFFER 
Mr Hannen Swaffer , aged 82 , the journalist , is to enter University College Hospital , London , today for a minor operation . 
He expects to be out in two or three days if all goes well . 
SOVIET MINISTER ON TESTS " No radiation danger " 
Mr Konstantine Rudnev , a deputy chairman of the Soviet Council of Ministers , arrived in London yesterday from Moscow at the head of a seven-man Soviet delegation of scientific and industrial experts . 
He said that it was considered that the level of radioactivity resulting from Russian nuclear tests is not dangerous . 
Russia was not proposing to supply dried milk to children as a result of recent tests , he added . 
Mr Rudnev , who was chairman of the State Committee for Defence Technology until last year , was asked what benefit the recent tests brought to Soviet scientific research . 
He replied : " I personally am not a specialist in nuclear weapons and I can not add anything to the official statements of the Soviet Government . 
" FAMILY KILLED IN BUNGALOW FIRE 
A former Bristol Rovers footballer , Mr John David Hamilton , his wife Margaret , and their three-months-old daughter , all died in a fire in their three-room bungalow at Hall Lane , Olveston , Gloucestershire , yesterday . 
Firemen called by a neighbour discovered the bodies buried under wreckage . 
Mr Hamilton had apparently gone to the baby 's bedroom and was still clutching her . 
Another neighbour , Mr Edward Greaves , and his son , who tried to get inside , were beaten back by the heat and smoke . 
By the time the fire brigade arrived , he said , the bungalow was a " roaring mass of flames . " 
More students from the Dominions ? 
By our own Reporter 
The Council for Education in the Commonwealth believes that , in spite of the establishment of new educational institutions in Commonwealth countries , the number of students coming to this country will increase . 
" Informed opinion , " the council says , puts the increase at 10 or 15 per cent . 
The council , in a memorandum to the Robbins Committee on Higher Education , expresses the hope that the committee will estimate the demand accurately and allow for it in its recommendations . 
Two new organisations are envisaged . 
One of these might keep questions of technical education and training for Commonwealth students under constant review . 
It should concern itself with personal cases , and help in the distribution of students . 
It might be empowered to use quota systems and other methods to control distribution . 
EUROPEAN AIR FARES MAY BE RAISED AIRLINES START SPECIAL TALKS IN PARIS TO-DAY By Our Air Correspondent 
Air fares in Europe may be increased — possibly by amounts between 2 and 5 per cent . 
— from April 1 as a result of a special private meeting of European airlines which opens in Paris this morning . 
The meeting has been called to discuss the need for the increases by the International Air Transport Association — the world 's airline Parliament — in response to urgent requests from a number of European airlines who have become alarmed at continually rising costs , in particular the U.K. Ministry of Aviation 's decision to raise landing fees at its airports by about one-third from April 1 . 
All the European carriers , including British European Airways , will attend , and most of the long-haul operators , including British Overseas Airways Corporation , who are not directly involved but who fly over parts of Europe , will be sending observers . 
It is thought likely that at the meeting B.E.A . 
will fight any proposal to raise fares , especially at such short notice . 
The airline has booked many hundreds of thousands of passengers on the basis of existing or planned fares levels already agreed , and it is likely to argue that the administrative problems involved in raising fares now would be enormous , besides cutting across B.E.A . 's entire philosophy of getting fares down and keeping them down . 
It is understood that the prime movers behind this virtually emergency session of the I.A.T.A. are several of the smaller European carriers , who have in the past been strong opponents of fares-cutting airlines , such as B.E.A . 
TRAFFIC TALKS Ending " Fares Freeze " 
The problem of these smaller airlines is not difficult to gauge . 
Substantial cuts in European air fares were agreed , after long and even bitter argument , at the I.A.T.A. traffic conference in Honolulu in the Autumn of 1959 , to become effective from April 1 , 1960 . 
At the 1960 annual traffic conference , held in Cannes last autumn , these earlier cuts were confirmed , and a few further special European reductions were also agreed , to become effective from April 1 , this year . 
The Cannes conference also took the unprecedented decision however , of declaring what amounted to "fares freeze " for a period of two years , agreeing that there would be no further traffic conference until the autumn of 1962 , when fares would be fixed for the traffic year starting April 1 , 1963 . 
LANDING FEES UP Effect on Costs 
The effect of this would have been to keep European air fares at their existing levels right up to the spring of 1963 , in the face of rising costs and steadily expanding capacity as more and more jets joined the airlines ' fleets . 
In the event , these rising costs have already overtaken the airlines . 
In particular , a good deal of concern has been caused in European air transport by the decision of the Ministry of Aviation to raise landing fees at the U.K. airports it controls by about one-third from April 1 . 
A Comet 4B , for example , will now have to pay a basic rate of about £59 to land at London Airport if the flight originates within Europe , and a full rate of £115 if the flight originates at a point beyond Europe . 
The existing fees are about £44 basic and £84 full . 
For a Viscount , the basic rate goes up from about £17 to £23 , and the full rate from about £30 to £41 . 
The effect will be to put up B.E.A . 's landing fees for U.K. domestic flights alone by £440,000 in a full year , and by probably as much again on its landing fees for international flights . 
B.E.A . 
has already been forced to counter this by raising many of its domestic tourist fares by 3 1/2 per cent . 
from April 1 , cancelling out part of the cuts in those fares it proposed to make from that date . 
FOREIGN AIRLINES Openly Critical 
Every foreign airline flying to the U.K. is in the same position . 
They are openly critical about the higher landing fees , and it is understood that the Ministry 's decision will be cited by many at the Paris meeting as one of the principal reasons why air fares in Europe must rise — and rise from the same date that the higher landing fees become effective . 
In order to protect its bookings position — and its avowed long-term aim of slashing fares — B.E.A . 
will probably try to resist the strong efforts that will be made in Paris to raise fares , but it may well be obliged to concede something . 
One possibility is that it may win a respite , with fares being raised by small amounts at a date later in the summer or in the autumn . 
Whatever the outcome , it is already clear that the Paris meeting will be difficult , and perhaps even stormy . 
£12m . 
Order for Boiler Consortium By Our Industrial Correspondent 
The first boiler contract for the recently formed consortium of John Brown Land Boilers and Foster Wheeler was announced yesterday by the Central Electricity Generating Board . 
Shared Contracts 
The consortium , which was formed last month , is to supply four 350,000 kilowatt boilers , at a cost of over £12m. , to the Tilbury B power station . 
The steam condensers are to be supplied by Richardsons Westgarth ( Hartlepool ) . 
There is considerable over-capacity in the boiler industry , and it has become the C.E.G.B . 's practice to spread the large contracts between two manufacturers . 
Thus the boiler order for the new West Burton power station in Nottinghamshire was shared between Simon-Carves and International Combustion , and , as reported last week , a further £20m. order was awarded to Babcock and Wilcox and Yarrow and Company . 
The new Tilbury contract will represent a much-needed addition of new work for the two companies concerned . 
Lord Aberconway , chairman of John Brown , said last year that the 1959 boiler order for the Bankside power station was the only order received by the company from a British generating authority for more than four years . 
Service Dates 
The first two turbo-alternators are due for commissioning in 1965 and the remaining two in 1966 . 
The generators , as reported earlier this week , are being supplied by General Electric at a cost of £8m . 
CHAIN OF SHOE SHOPS FOR CO-OPERATIVES From Our Own Correspondent MANCHESTER , March 22 . 
The Co-operatives are to set up a country-wide chain of shoe stores known as Society Footwear . 
If the new organisation is a success , it is likely to spread to other trades , including radio , and electrical goods . 
Fifty-six Co-operative retail societies have already indicated their readiness to join the English and Scottish Wholesale Societies in the new venture which follows the independent commission 's recommendation in 1958 that the Co-ops. should establish chains of specialist shops . 
Some of the largest retail societies are among those joining . 
They include the London Society , the Royal Arsenal , the South Suburban , Birmingham , Liverpool and Plymouth , Newcastle-on-Tyne and the Co-operative Retail Service , a big amalgamation of societies . 
Each retail society will invest £5,000 for every shoe shop it plans to open . 
This will give the chain an initial capital of over £500,000 — half provided by the retail societies and half by the C.W.S. and S.C.W.S. The shops will not stock only C.W.S. shoes . 
" We realise that the customer wants a range of choice , " said a spokesman in Manchester to-day . 
Existing Co-operative shoe shops will not be affected . 
" We shall start shops in places where there is the trade available and where the societies have not been able to develop so far . " 
Mr. R. Southern , chairman of the C.W.S. Board 's retail trading committee and one of four directors nominated by the wholesale societies to act as a caretaker Board in the early stages , said to-day : " Behind the new organisation will be the vast financial and technical resources of the C.W.S. and the S.C.W.S. Our shops will be as attractive and modern as any in the country . " 
It is not yet known how many shops the new chain is likely to have , but the immediate target will probably be in the region of 100 . 
France to Cut Some Customs Duties 5% on April 1 From Our Own Correspondent PARIS , March 22 . 
New tariff cuts of 5 per cent. , to come into force on April 1 , were approved by the French Council of Ministers to-day . 
Reductions apply specifically to the Six countries of the Common Market but , in some circumstances , they will also affect imports from outside . 
It is understood , however , that British and American cars will not benefit from the reductions . 
The full details of the reductions will not be known until the decree appears in the official journal to-morrow or even a day after . 
In Anticipation 
It was stated that the decision was taken in anticipation of the 10 per cent . 
reduction within the Common Market which takes place automatically at the end of the year . 
It was indicated at the same time that the cuts would apply to all countries providing that the resulting duties did not fall below the common external tariff of the Six . 
One of the immediate results will be to nullify the effects of the recent revaluation of the D-Mark on the prices of German exports in the French market . 
It is not quite clear exactly how the reductions are to be applied . 
In the past few weeks there has been a prolonged discussion between Ministries as to whether the cuts should apply uniformly across the board or should vary with different products . 
It is , however , reported that the tariff on textiles and cars imported from the Common Market are to be reduced by 10 per cent . 
Checking Prices 
The Ministry of Finance said that the reductions now approved were designed to check the upward trend in prices . 
This is one more indication of the French Government 's determination to sweep away protective habits of mind . 
DR . 
HELLER SEES SIGNS OF U.S. RECOVERY From Our U.S. Correspondent NEW YORK , March 22 . 
The widespread belief that the recession may have reached its turning point was endorsed to-day by President Kennedy 's chief economic adviser , Dr. Walter Heller . 
Dr. Heller said that with signs pointing to a bottoming-out of the recession the " odds are not very strongly in favour " of a temporary tax cut to stimulate business . 
Aid for Workless 
The chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers made his remarks as Congress was preparing to send the first of Mr. Kennedy 's anti-recession Bills to the White House for signature . 
The Bill , providing $990m. ( £353,570,000 ) in additional aid for unemployed who have exhausted their benefits , followed on the heels of the Feed Grains Bill passed earlier in the day — after two months in office President Kennedy has now seen his first major proposals enacted into law . 
So far his programme has survived its progress through Congress relatively unscathed , but the most contentious matters have still to come up for consideration . 
The chances of some of the latter may suffer through a pick-up in business conditions which , Dr. Heller said to-day , might be relatively early . 
But he emphasised that only a relatively slow return to full employment could be expected . 
The Administration is striving to persuade Congress that a turn-round in business does not obviate the need for such measures as pension liberalisation — scheduled for April 1 by the President but so far given no attention by Congress — and a rise in the minimum wage , which comes up for House debate this week . 
The sluggishness of the Congressional pace is partly explained by conservative opposition to much of the President 's programme . 
But another reason is that Congress is simply not geared to cope with the flood of proposals that has poured from the White House on a scale only matched under President Roosevelt . 
AN IRREGULAR TURN IN EQUITIES GRATTAN WAREHOUSES ' PROFITS UP 12% By LEX 
Industrial equities developed an irregular turn yesterday . 
Early marking down on the view that the rise had been a little fast failed to bring out much stock . 
Price movements were finally mixed with a slight bias to a lower level . 
Breweries came back further . 
Volume was substantial again and the undertone still firm . 
GEORGE McCARTHY In The City Palmerston House , E.C.2 . 
London Wall 3431 . 
A SIXPENNY BARGAIN AT THE STOCK EXCHANGE 
AN unchanged dividend of 300 per cent . 
is being paid on the Ordinary shares of Neville Developments . 
And thereby hangs a tale — and a great deal of money . 
Neville Developments is a Birmingham company run by shrewd chartered accountants . 
It has a number of operating subsidiaries , but its main function is that of an issuing house specialising in transforming private companies into public concerns . 
And highly profitable that business has proved . 
The company 's shares are among the cheapest ever brought to market . 
Their nominal value is 6d. , but their market value is around 50s . 
Earlier this year they were worth more than £3 each . 
Profit figures for 1961 , out this morning , will prove rather disappointing to shareholders . 
They amount to £471,000 , which is a drop of £312,000 from the year before . 
But these shareholders are in no need of sympathy . 
They are in the big money . 
Let me briefly retrace the golden road . 
MAKING MONEY 
In 1958 the then 2s . 
Ordinary shares are placed at 3s. each . 
In September , 1959 , they were divided into one sixpenny Ordinary share and three sixpenny Deferred Ordinary shares . 
The Deferred get no dividend until 20s. had been paid on the Ordinary . 
Anybody who invested £100 in these shares in 1958 would now have 666 Ordinary shares worth more than £1,300 , plus 2,000 Deferred shares — which have no market quotation yet but are surely going to be valuable later . 
BEER WEDDING 
EVERY expert in the beer business has been prophesying that the trade will be concentrated into fewer and fewer units . 
Today the big Yorkshire combine , John Smith 's Tadcaster Brewery , reports that it is having merger talks with Warwick and Richardson , the brewers of Newark , Notts . 
Already this year John Smith 's has bought up Yates ' Castle Brewery . 
The 5s. shares of Warwicks and Richardsons are currently quoted at around 22s . 
So the take-over terms should be interesting . 
SHARES MOVE UP 
AFTER a dull start , prices moved ahead again yesterday on the Stock Exchange . 
Business was small , but some of the gains were worth having . 
Steel Company of Wales rose 1s. 3d. to 35s. 6d. , Pru " A " 17s. 6d. to £23 18s. 9d. , and Threlfall 's Brewery 2s. to 90s . 
In the paper section , Bowater put on 1s. 3d. at 46s. 3d. , while Penguins rose 10 1/2d. to 20s. 4 1/2d . 
Imperial Chemicals gained a further 1s. at 61s. 6d. and Typhoo Tea 1s. 3d. at 35s. 4 1/2d . 
In oils , Burmah , which announces a three-million-dollar share purchase in Great Plains Development Co. of Canada , and a 4,500,000-dollar option on more shares , rose 1s. to 34s. 1 1/2d . 
WHERE MONEY GOES 
HOW do we invest the millions of pounds we all own as tax-payers ? 
A White Paper , out today , reports that expenditure on the programmes of the nationalised industries , the public corporations and the Post Office accounts for one half of all public investment . 
Largest absorber of capital is the electricity industry , followed by the British Transport Commission and the Post Office . 
About two-fifths of our public money goes to local authorities , who spend it chiefly on housing and education . 
Enormous sums are involved . 
Total investment this year is estimated at £1,755million . 
And next year — that is , the year ending April 1963 — it might be £200million more . 
RISING VALUES 
THE £1 Ordinary shares of Sopers of Harrow , Middx , the store firm , are worth £48 10s. each . 
That is what Debenhams , which already owns most of those in issue , are offering for the remaining 4,135 . 
Boom time — and Bank rate may be clipped 
ALL was merry and bright along the golden pavements of the City yesterday . 
Everybody believes the Bank rate will be cut again today . 
If it is not , some bold speculators will lose money . 
Yesterday they were backing their fancy with hard cash , and shares enjoyed their best day for a long time . 
The Financial Times index rose by 4.6 points , which represents a jump of many millions in share values . 
Metal Box , the can giant , rose 2s. 4 1/2d. , Imperial Chemicals 2s. , Beechams 1s. 9d. , Typhoo Tea 2s . 
In banks , Westminster " B " and Lloyds both put on 1s. 9d. , while Prudential " A " rose £1 to £24 18s. 9d . 
Courage and Barclay frothed up 1s. 6d. and Bents Brewery rose 2s . 
There was less excitement in the gilt-edged market . 
But gains of up to 6s. 3d. were recorded . 
EXPANSION 
SIR CLAVERING FISON 'S report should be in the hands of his shareholders today . 
But it is already out of date . 
He reports that the capital projects approved total £13,500,000 , most of which is for the proposed great nitrogen plant at Milford Haven . 
Sir Clavering told me yesterday that this figure has now become an overstatement . 
The Milford Haven project has been modified . 
There is now no plan to raise fresh capital , certainly not in this financial year . 
Although group sales of this great fertiliser and chemical combine rose by £3million last year to £54million , the profit came down by £900,000 to £3,607,000 . 
Even so it was the second highest figure in the company 's history . 
BOOMING BUTLIN 
MR . 
BILLY BUTLIN was host last year to more than 600,000 paying guests . 
This year the figure should be larger still , because a new camp , in Minehead , Somerset , will be open . 
The joy in the chalets certainly spreads to the shareholders , who must regularly rise and bless the name of Butlin . 
Last June these lucky owners , having had a dividend for the year of 80 p.c. , learned that their shares were being doubled by a capital bonus . 
Yesterday , Mr. Butlin announced that the interim dividend on this new capital is raised to 15 p.c. , and he forecast a final of not less than 40 p.c. — a total of 55 p.c . 
He also revealed that the full figures for this year will show an increase in revenue of £1,500,000 . 
He added that the rise in the half-yearly dividend is small only because the Chancellor has called for restraint . 
PROFITS JUMP 
THERE is surprisingly good news this morning from Sir Ivan Stedeford , master of mighty Tube Investments . 
He reports a jump in profits of £3million to a record £27million . 
The figure , of course , includes for the first time the profits of acquired Raleigh Industries , but we already know that these declined last year . 
In addition , the figures now out reveal that the earnings of a major subsidiary , British Aluminium fell last year by £1,500,000 . 
So the group profits make pleasant reading to shareholders . 
Dividend is 14 p.c. which is the equivalent of 18 p.c. paid last year . 
This news came after the stock market had closed . 
But it was greeted with a cheer . 
In after-hour dealings the £1 shares jumped 5s. to 67s. 6d . 
No wonder . 
A NEW WEAPON IS LAUNCHED IN THE LAGER WAR 
FOUR big brewers have joined in an unequal partnership to produce and market a new lager , Harp . 
They are Guinness , Courage , Barclay and Symonds , Mitchells and Butler and the Scottish and Newcastle Breweries . 
And it was Lord Boyd , vice-chairman of Guinness — formerly Mr. Lennox Boyd — who in his best front-bench manner yesterday launched a campaign at the Dorchester Hotel to make us drink Harp on a national scale . 
Now nearly all the big brewers — Bass is a notable exception — are committed to the struggle for the new drinking market . 
BIG BUSINESS 
HUGE money is at stake . 
Ind Coope is spending millions to make and market Skol . 
The four groups who will strum the harp have combined assets of over £200million . 
Can these huge investments pay off ? 
The brewers think so and they will be right if enough of the drinking classes change their taste . 
DIVIDEND SHOCK 
SHOCK news for shareholders of Gas Purification and Chemical , the Grundig company . 
They are to get no dividend this year . 
Last time they were paid 35 p.c . 
No wonder ! 
Against last year 's profit of £811,000 , there is this year a loss of £15,000 . 
When the news broke yesterday the 5s. shares dipped to 5s. 9d . 
But they recovered later to 6s. 7 1/2d. , a fall of 10 1/2d. on the day . 
MORE DOWN 
STOCK markets yesterday were still falling under the influence of recent adverse company news . 
Wiggins Teape , papermakers , tumbled 2s. 3d. to 50s. 9d. and Villiers Engineering , on bad results , 1s. 3d. to 6s. 9d . 
Full details of the merger lowered both Rank Organisation and Gaumont British by a shilling . 
HOLDING THE LINE 
DIRECTORS of Ault and Wiborg , the makers of printers ' inks , have continuing good news for their shareholders . 
Half year 's profit to September 30 last is £14,000 higher at £515,000 and the interim dividend of 3 1/4 p.c. is the equivalent of 6 1/2 p.c. paid last year before the hand-out of a 100 p.c. capital bonus . 
NO BONUS 
SHAREHOLDERS of Fry 's ( London ) , makers of Enox hand tools , must do without a special bonus this year — last time it was 2 1/2 p.c . 
A final dividend of 10 p.c. brings the total distribution up to 17 1/2 p.c. compared with 20 p.c. a year ago . 
Reason for the cut is a £19,000 fall in profits at £54,300 WAGON TAKE-OVER 
DIRECTORS of Winget , the Kent engineers , and the Gloucester Railway Carriage and Wagon Company have at last agreed on terms for a merger . 
Winget will offer the following share-exchange terms to holders of Gloucester Wagon shares : two Winget Ordinary , plus £4 19s. nominal of Convertible loan stock , for every nine Gloucester shares . 
Last month Sir William Morgan , chairman of Gloucester Wagon , said that when existing orders are completed the company would stop making rolling stock for railways , and the main works would be closed down . 
The merger should alter things . 
HOME SEEKERS FACING BAD WINTER 
WHAT do you do nowadays if you must buy a house ? 
One major authority on the subject today declares : "It will be a hard winter for the home buyer . " 
The authority is the Building Societies Gazette . 
And I agree with it . 
The facts are , as the Gazette points out , that when the banks and insurance companies are not lending money all home buyers turn to the building societies . 
BARGAINS 
These , although they have large funds , have n't got anything like enough money to meet the huge demand . 
And building society managers are not keen to lend large sums on expensive houses . 
Some houses , it is true , might now fall in price , particularly the pre-1919 houses , since the Government 's lending scheme on these has been abandoned . 
But the societies do n't want to lend money on these old houses . 
So in that case , too , the young home-builders will be frustrated . 
For these houses , and some others , the winter could be a bargain time for the man with ready cash who can pay the full price . 
But how many young home-makers are in that position ? 
So young lovers move into a queue that goes on lengthening . 
Says the Gazette : " We wish them joy as they trudge from society to society . 
We wish that Mr. Selwyn Lloyd could go with them to listen to their interviews with building society branch managers . 
Or perhaps they would prefer more cheerful company . " 
Perhaps they could have the cheerful company of Mr. Lloyd 's new right-hand man , Mr. Henry Brooke , whose set-the-people-free Rent Act brought about this remarkable situation . 
The tragedy is that he 's proud of it . 
PROFITS SLIM 
TWO major British companies , Courtaulds , the man-made textile giant , and Wiggins Teape , the paper-making combine , issue ominous statements . 
The theme is the same : higher sales but smaller profit . 
Cortaulds ' sales for the half-year to September 30 were £3,600,000 higher at £83,451,000 but profit in the six months declined by nearly £2 million to £7,586,000 . 
And there is a small but severe shock for shareholders . 
Their interim dividend is cut from 10d. to 9d. — that is , from 4 1-6 p.c. to 3 3/4 p.c . 
Final dividend last year was 5 5-6 p.c. to make 10 p.c. for the year . 
" Present indications suggest , " say the directors , " that profits for the second half-year should be of the same order . " 
Familiarity Breeds Discrimination World of Music : By MARTIN COOPER 
AS Europe and America slowly approach a cultural unity which must eventually shame the politicians into following suit , the old concept of local or national reputations in the arts is being discarded . 
Until 1940 it was an observable fact that there were composers whose music was highly prized in some countries and entirely neglected by their neighbours , and this was explained by the difference in national characters . 
It is not so very long ago that Brahms met with bored incomprehension in Latin countries , that Bruckner and Mahler were regarded as exclusively Teutonic , Faure2 exclusively French , and Nielsen exclusively Scandinavian , while Anglo-Saxons and Scandinavians marvelled at their own particular appreciation of Sibelius , Delius or Vaughan Williams . 
Now , however , the wider musical exchanges made possible by broadcasting , recording and the international tours of major orchestras have made ignorance and prejudice inexcusable and greatly reduced the area in which national temperament seriously limits the appreciation of any music . 
What were formerly regarded as limitations in the sensibility or intelligence of the public begin to appear rather as flaws in the composers concerned , and the importance of those flaws is revealed in each case by the degree to which an international , as opposed to a merely local , public can be persuaded to overlook them . 
Brahms is now universally accepted at an estimate well below that current in Britain and Germany when he was placed beside Bach and Beethoven , but enormously higher than that which once virtually dismissed him from French and Italian programmes . 
Bruckner is gradually becoming known and appreciated outside the Germanic countries in exactly the same way , not as the equal ( let alone the superior , as some enthusiasts have suggested ) of Beethoven but as a great and unique figure in the history of the symphony . 
MAHLER 's case is slightly different , since he has always been neglected in his native Austria and has appealed more to individuals ( Casella , for instance , was an improbable champion ) than to national groups . 
The uneven value of his symphonies becomes clearer as they are more performed , but at least three of them are now repertory works here and in America , and the remaining six obtain festival or occasional performances , while the songs are universally acknowledged . 
Faure2 , once dismissed as a French trifler , is now recognised as a minor master in the field of piano and chamber music , and something greater as a song-writer ( could anyone have prophesied even 20 years ago that the greatest German lieder-singer of the day would record a Faure2 song-cycle as Fischer-Dieskau has done ? ) . 
Nielsen , like Mahler , has a strong personal following outside Scandinavia and individual works have found their place in the repertory here . 
The position of the great Anglo-Saxon favourites , on the other hand , is quite different owing to the extraordinary instability of the Anglo-Saxon public , which has shown itself infinitely suggestible , knowing nothing between uncritical enthusiasm and blank incomprehension . 
This lack of critical discrimination , which can be observed in our attitude towards performers as well as composers , is the price we pay for our provincial position on the periphery of the great Western European musical tradition , our failure over two centuries to sustain any strong national musical tradition of our own . 
Handel , Mendelssohn and Gounod were all in their turn astonished — and , being human , delighted — by the adoration that their works received in this country . 
In our own day Delius was quite aware that his music was enjoying a vogue that carried no guarantee of duration and Harold Johnson has recently revealed Sibelius 's pleased but uneasy astonishment at finding himself acclaimed in England and America as the greatest living composer . 
Vaughan Williams 's position as chief of the belated nationalist revival in this country seemed to promise greater security for his music ; but , like Delius and Sibelius , he has not grown into a larger , more universal musical figure since his death . 
SEVERAL correspondents have recently accused me of belittling , or at best " damning with faint praise , " the music of these three composers . 
But any praise must seem faint after the extravagant paeans that it has prompted in the past ; and is it belittling a composer who has been too easily proclaimed a giant to attempt a more objective estimate ? 
The violent opposition that these composers have certainly aroused in some quarters does not spring from an objective valuation of their music so much as from the fact that their music was used as a kind of smokescreen to hide from the public the revolutionary works of Stravinsky , Schoenberg and Bartok . 
Now that we have begun to become familiar with these , we can also begin to discriminate in our judgments of Delius , Sibelius and Vaughan Williams — to sift their major from their minor achievements and to see them in perspective against the music of their great contemporaries . 
Gaining from the Right Setting 
THERE can be few sights in Northern Europe more beautiful than the first view of the three massive towers of Bruges , giant figures dominating a rather desolate landscape , as one approaches the town across the flat coastal plain . 
Bruges itself , with its belfry " old and brown , " still preserves many signs of its mediaeval prosperity and it provides an incomparable setting for the { Se2minaire Europe2en de Musique Ancienne . 
Some five years ago the Belgian Ministry of Education , a department generous in its subsidies to the arts , conceived the admirable idea of asking Stafford Cape , the musicologist and director of { Pro Musica Antiqua , to organise at the College of Europe in Bruges a summer course in mediaeval and renaissance music . 
Every year since 1957 students from all over the Continent , recommended by their Governments , have met in Bruges for three weeks . 
The complete course takes three of these sessions , so that this year was the second year of the second course . 
There were altogether 24 students from 14 countries , among them three students from England and one , a lutenist , from distant Finland . 
Each day they attended lectures and made music informally together . 
COINCIDENCE 
By a happy chance , the course coincides every second year with the { Biennale Internationale de Poe2sie , a gathering of poets from all over the world , in the nearby seaside town of Knokke , and it has now become the custom for the students of the Se2minaire , under Stafford Cape 's direction , to give an evening concert in the Casino . 
This they did last weekend , offering to a large international audience a fascinating programme of French and Italian 14th-century music and works of the Burgundian school . 
Almost every student took part , either playing or singing , sometimes putting aside an instrument to join in an unaccompanied motet or movement from a Mass . 
Remembering that these students had been working together for only a few weeks , that many of them had little previous knowledge of early music and that some were not professional musicians , one could only marvel at the progress they had made , not only in individual performance but in a general musical understanding of a period that often seems remote and inaccessible . 
In Dufay 's " { La belle se siet , " for example , two sopranos , one from France , the other from England , sang easily and with obvious enjoyment in old French , as though they had been preparing the piece for months instead of weeks . 
Much of the music performed was of great contrapuntal complexity and profound religious feeling ; that they were able to bring to it such style and insight after working together for so short a time was proof both of the students ' devotion and of the enlightened direction of Mr. Stafford Cape . 
JOHN LADE The Only Real Guide to Play-going About the Theatre : By W. A. DARLINGTON 
PEOPLE quite often write to ask me to choose plays for them , and it is quite natural that they should . 
Here I am at their service , and I do my best to comply . 
But I sometimes wonder if they realise how difficult the task is . 
They are asking me to look at plays through their eyes , when my whole working life is spent examining them through my own . 
It is like being made to read through somebody else 's spectacles . 
All valid criticism is informed personal opinion . 
That is a truism which will be questioned hardly anywhere , except in some quarters in America , where the collective opinion of the uninformed man in the street is thought to have a mystic significance . 
My old friend and colleague , Campbell Dixon , used to tell of a conversation he had with a New York film-critic , a lady , who heard with an air of shocked incredulity that what he offered his public was his own private and unsupported opinions . 
" But surely , " he said to her , " that 's what you do , is n't it ? " 
"Certainly not . " 
"Then what do you do ? " 
"I stand in the foyer and listen to what people are saying . " 
Well , I 'm not of this lady 's persuasion . 
My opinions , such as they are , are my own , formed in accordance with my own needs and beliefs , my own experience . 
Nobody is likely , or even encouraged , to agree with the opinions unless he has the same needs and beliefs . 
It follows that a good number of the people who write to me about the plays they are to see are appealing to one whose tastes and views they do not share . 
To take the simplest example possible , I get letters asking me to select plays " suitable for a family outing " or " suitable for children " . 
If I were to answer this according to my own beliefs , I should probably say , " Take your family ( or your children ) to anything you think wo n't bore them " ; but it would be the wrong kind of answer to anyone who thinks " suitability " all that important . 
Common Sense 
It is , to me , a matter of plain common sense . 
At any given moment there are sure to be plays running in London to which the label " for adults only " might with propriety be fixed . 
An actual label is not necessary , because everybody knows which these plays are , or can easily find out ; and nobody in his senses would dream of taking a child or an innocent maiden aunt ( should such exist ) to one of them . 
Outside this category there are many plays of a mild degree of unsuitability ; and to these I personally should not hesitate to take any member of my family . 
When I was a young schoolboy I used to sneak off to the local dust-hole week by week , and saw many plays of which my parents , if consulted , might not have approved ; and they never did me a mite of harm . 
Later , when I myself was a parent , I exercised only the lightest of censorship on my children 's play-going , and they took no harm either . 
How , then , can I help other people to impose a ban in which I do not believe ? 
Anyway , once you begin to look at the problem , there is almost nothing you can take a child to . 
Shakespeare is impossible , of course — all those frank references to sex . 
And pantomime is worse . 
Peter Pan ? — very little sex there . 
True , but there are other horrors . 
I remember sitting behind a small boy who bounced in his chair with glee at the opening scene — the dog-nurse , the flying lesson . 
But he fell oddly silent when the curtain rose , and when the scene began to fill with wolves and Red Indians , pirates and crocodiles he got off his seat , turned his back to the stage , and — except for occasional terrified glances over his shoulder — spent the rest of the act gazing longingly over my right shoulder at the illuminated word EXIT . 
It 's just as difficult with adults . 
What can one do when asked to recommend a play " suitable " for a party of 30 people ( sex , age and tastes all unspecified ) except play safe and recommend " My Fair Lady " or " The Mouse-Trap " ? 
To my mind , people do much better picking their own entertainments , even at random . 
I know of a Women 's Institute which , on the strength of having enjoyed Sandy Wilson 's pure " Boy Friend , " went off blithely on an outing to Brighton to see his hyper-sophisticated " Valmouth . " 
Advise and condense by W. J. Weatherby 
AT a recent Washington party a garrulous American egghead tried to explain the difference between the Senate and the House of Representatives to confused foreign visitors . 
But the more he tried the more confused his audience looked — and at last , too deep into references to populations , finance , and presidential recommendations , he began to sound confused himself . 
It was like a symbolical explanation of why so many outsiders fail to understand American politics and why — to them — the presidential leadership sometimes looks less decisive than it really is . 
One of the best popular accounts of the complex system of checks and balances in operation in Washington is Allen Drury 's recent best seller , " Advise and Consent , " and even that was too involved and tortuous for some foreign readers . 
The decision then to make a massive Hollywood production of Mr Drury 's novel is like a challenge to succeed where so many others have failed , for to be a success — artistically as well as financially — the film will have to be true to the reality of Washington and yet be simple enough for international audiences to understand . 
As the director , Otto Preminger , began to film recently in Washington , our old friends Reality and Illusion were busy providing some choice examples of their relationship in film terms . 
They met head-on at one party when an actor playing a senator learnt that the stranger he was chatting with was a real senator . 
The Hollywood "senator " had a noble looking image — as public relations prose sometimes puts it — and the gracious manners of an old plantation patriarch , whereas the real senator had the kind of untypical and unsaleable personality that might belong to a shopkeeper or a millionaire and would not get heroic film billing anywhere outside a home movie . 
The " senator " looked too right , almost as the outsider might have expected him to look , whereas the real one had an unexpectedness about him , as if he could not possibly be cast as anyone but himself . 
Much of the gap between Illusion and Reality is caused by the problem of time . 
Mr Drury 's President and senators who reveal themselves gradually through 760 pages ( at least in the American paperback edition ) have had to be transformed into Mr Preminger 's Franchot Tone , Don Murray , Lew Ayres , and the rest of an experienced team who can make the most of their split-second timing to create their characters in a matter of minutes . 
The real test of the film in the end will be how much has had to be oversimplified or glossed over to keep up with the clock . 
Mr Drury chose a comparatively melodramatic incident — the selection of a controversial Secretary of State and the conflict between the White House and much of the Senate over it — and threw in a few skeletons in the senatorial cupboards to show off when the reader got too bogged down in the political manoeuvres . 
Mr Drury , a former political reporter in Washington for the " New York Times , " is a great believer in the moderates ' way in politics , and his book in one way is a tribute to his belief , in that it was moderate enough in tone to be fair even to extremists like the arch conservative from the South , Seab Cooley . 
Charles Laughton , who still has a Yorkshire ring to his voice , described his preparation for playing Cooley as " an Eliza Doolittle job . " 
He studied the right accent with a phonetics expert and did some extra homework in conversation with some real senators from the South . 
In the only scene I saw him play , he made his point with lightning professional speed and also managed a suggestion of an iceberg of character waiting to be revealed under the surface . 
This was clearly how to make the most of the time and how best to try to bridge the old Reality-Illusion gap . 
Whether or not Mr Drury 's moderate tone will be preserved in the speed-up will depend very much on Mr Preminger , and if he loses it , the ill-informed abroad may simply become the misinformed , with Washington seeming a melodramatic circus rather than the complex meeting-place of all the States , the focus of a nation 's myriad viewpoints . 
Mr Preminger 's deep Austrian roots may help him there for although now an American citizen , he may see Washington with both an experienced eye and an objective one , which will enable him to find its essence without getting lost in detail or disastrously overglossing . 
His record suggests he is a believer in best-sellers as a basis for a film , and a man who knows him suggests this is because he usually becomes excited about one of the characters . 
This is probably the former actor coming out in him , and certainly on the set he often gives the impression of a caged actor on the wrong side of the camera yearning to give a performance himself . 
This may explain why sometimes his films let personality do the work of imagination and perhaps why they are generally so well cast . 
In " Advise and Consent , " for example , he has chosen a group of mature film actors — men like Ayres , Tone , Fonda , Pidgeon , not to mention Laughton — who could act most of the younger stars today off the screen . 
The Preminger name seemed to be unlocking most doors in Washington . 
How refreshing then it was for Reality to assert itself in the person of a little tailor . 
One of Mr Preminger 's assistants went along to his shop to hire some tuxedos for the big banquet scene and assumed he — or rather Mr Preminger — would naturally be given credit . 
The Preminger name worked no miracles with the little man ( he was only little physically ) and he threw in for good measure that he would need cash even if the President of the United States came in to hire a tuxedo . 
His image was n't smooth or glossy or predictable , but , oh , my goodness , he was alive . 
If only all those foreign outsiders could grasp he is more typical of Americans than any of the politicians ( even President Kennedy ) or any of the film stars ( even " President " Tone ) , perhaps Reality would win after all . 
FRANCO ZEFFIRELLI by Gareth Lloyd Evans 
FRANCO ZEFFIRELLI , whose explosive production of " Romeo and Juliet " shook the Old Vic out of its Shakespearean sloth , is now at Stratford on Avon setting the fuses for " Othello , " which opens next week . 
Yet , in spite of what we saw at the Old Vic , our expectations for " Othello , " and his very name ( like a hissing firework ) he only occasionally fulfils prognostications of a mercurial Italian . 
Without his long leather black jacket ( redolent of Florentine back-street conspiracy ) he could be mistaken for a tired young English director uniformed in the easy darkness of black slacks , black sneakers , and dull pullover . 
His accent is slight , his voice even-toned , his gestures spare . 
The eyes are restless , but sometimes pause on you with disconcerting acuteness . 
He slips into first acquaintance easily , and smokes Salems like a furnace . 
From his " Romeo and Juliet " one might expect a vivid staccato modern with the customary irreverence for tradition , but the great surprise is his imaginative , eloquent "feel " for historical process , and his sense of Western civilisation as an entity . 
He seems to feel his own presence in England now as a reflection of an historical logic which made sixteenth-century England the natural heir of the Florentine renaissance — this is not conceit , but an implied affirmation of the staying power of cultural unity . 
Florence was the starting-point of Western culture , and for him personally . 
He studied architecture there and began his theatre work directing opera in Siena . 
He mentions other Italian cities ( " The Romans were the whores of Western civilisation " ) but Florence penetrates his conversation . 
IT is easy , say , for a Florentine to accept foreigners , but they do not usually see the reality behind the fac6ade of Tuscan easy-going optimism . 
It hides a preoccupation with death , a questioning of what life means , and a practical attitude towards art . 
For Zeffirelli , the genius of the Florentine renaissance lies in its workmanship — " The Tuscans do not believe in fairy tales . " 
Shakespeare , he knows , could never have been in Italy , or he would have realised all this . 
" Romeo and Juliet " is very un-Italian — " There are many English girls like Juliet . 
An Italian girl would never dare to do what she did — they are too practical . " 
But "As You Like It " is very Florentine , and full of a workmanlike questioning . 
As he said this he gouged a geometrical pattern on the posh tablecloth of the theatre restaurant . 
He believes himself to be a typical Florentine . 
A limited stake in the Bard might be inferred from the fact that he has directed , in England , two of Shakespeare 's " Mediterranean " plays . 
He firmly repudiates this . 
He will probably direct " Hamlet " soon . 
This should be an event worth waiting for . 
His approach to a play is to discover " one simple idea , the creative idea , like a poet . " 
The idea for " Romeo and Juliet " was the irresponsibility of young love pushed into tragedy by Shakespeare . 
" Othello " is the " sentimental " tragedy of a cultivated , brave man who comes to love too late , and does not know what to do with it . 
" It is a tragedy not to know what to do with love . " 
Zeffirelli does not mention the colour of Othello 's skin , but his knife traced another geometrical pattern . 
He gets an idea , and must stick to it . 
In the face of this , I tempted disaster by raising the bogy of cutting Shakespeare , and scholarly interpretation . 
The former he shrugged away , and I assumed that , for him , the " idea " justifies the means . 
With the latter he toyed for an instant , then , his smile tightening into patience , he gave the benefice of the preservation of a tradition to the scholar . 
IN spite of his apparently complete immersion in theatre , there is a paradox in his character . 
He seems unhappy inside the core of his response to all that art means in terms of beauty , vitality , and work . 
He complained that he is always surrounded by theatre people , but one suspects that he would wither away if taken away for too long . 
It may be that his ubiquitous talent ( he supervises costume down to the last buttonhole ) exhausts him . 
It may be that he is typically Florentine , fighting death along the theatre 's shore-line of make-believe . 
One 's guess is that the war ( he was a partisan ) left him immeasurably fearful of what man can do to man . 
He spoke bitterly of Germany . 
The only Brecht play he would consider directing is " Mother Courage . " 
" Alienation " is contrary to all his beliefs about art and men , but there is more to it than this . 
" Brecht is the Wagner of modern Germany . 
Germany has done terrible things to the soul of man . " 
Perhaps it is sympathetic fear which prompts his friendliness to other people . 
He is at home with scene-shifters , ASMs , and strangers who stop to ask about his high-powered sports car . 
He thinks of a theatre in terms of a family . 
In so far as he can be content , he is so in the British Theatre . 
" You have the best theatre in the world , the best actors , the best audiences . " 
Under pressure he admits some Stratford audiences seemed dead , but " English audiences are the best ... 
English people live in a pattern , and theatre-going is part of that pattern . " 
He admires English actors for their discipline , "but they have weaknesses . " 
What they were he did not say , except obscurely to declare that you can not separate the artistic and personal life . 
When the conversation turned away from Shakespeare , from the unequivocally great in the art or the intensely human , Zeffirelli 's mind seemed to drop several degrees in temperature . 
Yes , he knew about Wesker and Delaney ; yes , they seemed powerful , but all report . 
The trouble was that they were too late , old-fashioned . 
All this naturalism , he says , has been done such a long time ago in France and elsewhere . 
But , implying and mitigating their weakness in one breath , he added that perhaps at the beginning of any movement you had to have " roughness , where things have to be hacked out , until everything runs smoothly . " 
THE WELL-BRED SNEERS THAT WOULD STIFLE TALENT ... by BERNARD LEVIN 
LONG , long ago , Mr. Noel Coward wrote an autobiography called " Present Indicative . " 
In Part Five he is invited to a house-party , where he meets some of the bright young people of the time . 
" Their shirts and flannels were yellow and well used against which mine seemed too newly white , too immaculately moulded from musical comedy . 
Their socks , thick and carelessly wrinkled round their ankles , so unlike mine of too thin silk , caught up by intricate suspenders . 
Their conversation , too , struck a traditional note in my ears . 
I seemed to know what they were going to say long before they said it . 
I sensed in their fledgling jokes and light , unsubtle badinage a certain quality of youthfulness that I had never known . 
And although I was the same age , if not younger than many of them , I felt suddenly old , over-experienced and quite definitely out of the picture . " 
No change 
THAT was in 1922 , and Mr. Coward has n't changed a bit . 
For this last couple of weeks he has been shooting off his predictably pursed mouth on the British theatre of today , in the Sunday Times . 
And Mr. Coward is still obsessed by the immensely important fact that other people do not dress exactly as he does . 
He still feels old and over-experienced . 
He still has the air of resentful superiority to more successful people . 
And he is still terribly , terribly , definitely out of the picture . 
In fact , the only advance — and that a slight one — is that he seems to have stopped writing sentences with no verbs in them . 
Now a man who was too old in 1922 can hardly be expected to have much idea of what is going on in 1961 . 
And from Mr. Coward 's petulant , bewildered , inaccurate , and shabby attack on the playwrights and players of today anyone foolish enough to trust him as a guide to the current theatrical scene would get a quite lunatic idea of what was going on in it . 
Success 
THEY would not learn , for instance , that our stages are fuller of good stuff , and our auditoriums of enthusiastic audiences , than for many years . 
They would have no idea that the current British theatrical renaissance is having an effect far beyond the West End of London , so that Broadway is heavily influenced by the highly successful plays of today that it has imported from Britain . 
They would never discover that our writers and players are exciting as well as excited , that they speak in tones of passion and belief and deep , proud faith . 
They would not be told that the technical accomplishment displayed by some of these members of our New Wave is astonishing in its range and completeness . 
Above all , they would never , never know that the New Wave — and it is the one thing that Mr. Coward can no more forgive than he can understand — is supremely successful , or that his own latest offering to Britain 's ungrateful stage ( " Waiting in the Wings " ) is being withdrawn shortly , having failed , as they say in the profession , to attract an audience . 
So nice 
YET it is Mr. Coward — too old nearly 40 years ago , mark you — who offers himself as the man to lead the poor , stumbling audiences out of the theatrical dark and into the bright , brave noonday where it is always perfect anyone-for-tennis weather , and where nothing as vulgar and squalid as a stove is ever mentioned , but where lots of nice , jolly , fun-giving adultery — to the immense , brittle amusement of The Master — is . 
I think it is time that the case for the British theatre of today was made , and made loud and clear . 
Hitherto it has had nothing but its talent and its success to speak for it against the well-bred sneers ( getting a little tight around the jaw-muscles by now ) of those whom the New Wave has been washing higher and drier up the beach . 
It is ridiculous , to begin with , to speak in the same breath of such vastly diverse talents and outlooks as those of John Osborne , Robert Bolt , Arnold Wesker , John Mortimer , Shelagh Delaney , John Arden , N. F. Simpson , Harold Pinter , Lionel Bart , Peter Shaffer , Willis Hall . 
They write about a gigantic range of different people , classes , and situations . 
Mr. Bolt in " A Man for All Seasons , " took us to the Court of Henry 8 , and in " The Tiger and the Horse " to an Oxford college . 
In the one , a dark , rich portrait of a saint wrestling with his conscience ; in the other , an agonisingly brilliant study of a half-man who grows whole under the impact of tragedy . 
Exquisite 
MR . 
WESKER , in his exquisite trilogy , ranges from the pre-war East End of London to the post-war Norfolk , from the semi-literate old Jewish immigrants to the intense and musical young Ronnie , from the dying of the old to the rebirth of the young . 
Mr. Shaffer , in his mercilessly observed " Five Finger Exercise , " and Mr. Mortimer , in his " The Wrong Side of the Park , " explored the hearts of characters middle-class enough to satisfy even Mr. Coward . 
From Mr. Mortimer and Mr. Simpson we have come to expect wit , style and elegance — three things that the false prophets of decay try to tell us have disappeared from our stages . 
And Mr. Simpson 's lunatic logic has a freshness , a lightness about it that would make " Waiting in the Wings " seem bad even if it were n't . 
From Miss Delaney we get the authentic accents of the young ; and from Mr. Bart we get a large number of very good tunes , which some more traditional quarters have found hard to come by lately . 
In short , from them all we get a huge , bursting cornucopia of every kind of writing , every kind of plot , every kind of setting , every kind of character . 
Belief 
AND to all this theatrical richness , the poor darling dodos can only squeak " kitchen sink " and " dustbin " drama . 
In fact , only one play in the last few years has had a dustbin in it , and that was by an Irishman who writes in French . 
Only one has a kitchen sink in it , and that one — Mr. Wesker 's — was the one which above all proclaimed its faith in beauty , goodness , and truth , and turned savagely to rend squalor and those who perpetuate it . 
Which brings me to what I think is the clue — the common factor shared by many of our younger playwrights , and the element which above all produces uncomprehending rage in Mr. Coward . 
In a single word , it is Belief . 
Poets without Appointments by PETER CHAMBERS 
AT the top of 14 uncarpeted stairs in a Notting Hill mews lives Christopher Logue , poet . 
" Come up and have a drink , " he yelled out of the window . 
I went up and lay down . 
This was obligatory , because Logue owns one typewriter , 500 books , and almost no furniture . 
I lay on the bed . 
Logue lay on the floor . 
The only chair in the room was occupied by Burns Singer , a Scottish poet who chain-smoked cigarettes made out of loose tobacco , and remarked from time to time : " Do ye not find the whisky in London terrible ? " 
Nobody seems to care about any modern poet nowadays except John Betjeman , who writes agreeably in praise of buttered toast and railway stations , and became a best seller almost By Appointment after Princess Margaret said she liked his verse . 
But what are the other fellows up to ? 
How do they live ? 
I got some interesting answers from Logue and Singer , and later from an American , Theodore Roethke , who has actually made poetry pay . 
Money 
CHRISTOPHER LOGUE is a dark , narrow , energetic man of 34 . 
If he were an actor , I would type-cast him as Shakespeare 's Iago . 
He has published half a dozen books of poetry and achieved a wider reputation when he wrote the lyrics for the Royal Court Theatre musical " The Lily-White Boys . " 
"I actually made quite good money then , " said Logue . 
" For the eight weeks the show ran I earned £85 a week . 
But that represented six months ' work , do n't forget . 
Average it out and you see I was really getting less than a waiter . " 
Noisy 
A CURRENT book of poetry , " Songs , " has earned Logue £100 . 
He was paid exactly that for one article in the American teenage magazine Mademoiselle . 
Christopher Logue writes fierce , noisy poems about war , love , and Logue . 
Son of a Southampton civil servant , he was brought up by Jesuits . 
" I now believe in the total abolition of private property , " he said . 
He got up off the floor , rattled some coal into the stove , and lay down again . 
A gleam of gold shone in the front teeth of Burns Singer as he lit his fifth home-made cigarette . 
He said : " Of course , Christopher believes that propoganda and politics are part of poetry . 
" For me , it 's different . 
It 's almost like psychoanalysis . 
I 'll do no work for weeks and then write solidly for 12 hours . 
I think what I 'm really seeking all the time is the source of Original Sin in myself . " 
Logue leaped to his feet at this heresy and shouted : " Original Sin ! 
What are you talking about ? " 
Logue looks like a man who would punch anybody on the nose . 
But then who could punch Burns Singer ? 
A mass of gold hair frames his face , he has the air of a spiritualised Viking whom the bigger men left at home when they set out in their long-prowed ships to raid England . 
Flames 
" JIMMY " to his friends , Burns Singer is actually the son of a Glaswegian mother and a Jewish salesman from Manchester . 
I count him the most inflammable poet on the English scene , because the way he showers burning tobacco strands on his flossy gold beard he is bound to go up in flames one day . 
In love , he wrote : — " 
I can not see 
Smiles in another . 
And every tear 
I brush aside 
I find you hidden within it 
like a bride " 
He wrote that for Marie , the woman he made his bride five years ago . 
She is a New York-born Negress with a Harley-street practice in psychotherapy . 
Dreamers only part of the time , poets show an acute interest in money , mainly because of the difficulty they have in laying their hands on it . 
Most magazines pay £10 10s. for a short poem , and the rates at the B.B.C. go down to 10d. a line for longer broadcast works . 
Poets write reviews and do journalism to make a living . 
" I 'm never sloppy about money , " said Christopher Logue in a raging voice . 
" I want a car . 
I want to eat out in restaurants . 
You know who I 'd like to be ? 
I 'd like to be president of U.S. Steel ! " 
Burns Singer , once a fish-chasing zoologist at Aberdeen Marine Laboratory , said : " I 'd like to be Spyros K. Skouras . 
I just fancy the glamour of working in films . " 
Professor 
THE world does not owe poets a living , but it pays more than a modest competence to Theodore Roethke ( pronounced ret-key ) , a great shambling American poet big as a house and earning enough money to live in one in smart Belgravia during his London visit . 
Dwarfing a glass of sherry with his big hand , 52-year-old Roethke told me : "My great year was 1958 , when I picked up £10,000 in various prizes , including an award from the Ford Foundation . 
" As a working Professor of English at the University of Washington , Seattle , I teach poetry for £4,500 a year . " 
But the amount he gets by actually writing poetry and getting it published is only about £1,000 a year . 
Journey 
ROETHKE 'S best man when he married , was W. H. Auden , who sang his songs for more than sixpence as the best-known British poet of the 1930s . 
" But even Auden ca n't make a living just writing poetry , " said Roethke . 
" I doubt if anybody does , except maybe Robert Frost . " 
Let's face it , poems will never be as popular as football coupons , and what America offers is just bigger subsidies . 
As characters , poets range from rhyming layabouts to saintly travellers who have embarked on the greatest journey of all : the journey into the mind and spirit of man . 
ARMY RESERVE TO BE STRENGTHENED Statement to M.P.s This Week : B.A.O.R. Will Get Key Men SMALL CALL-UP POSSIBLE BY OUR MILITARY REPORTER 
PLANS for strengthening Britain 's strategic reserve division will be announced by Mr Watkinson , Minister of Defence , in the Commons this week . 
Some units have been recently redeployed to form a division for service in Germany should the situation there continue to deteriorate . 
No indication has been given of what this increase will be , or where the troops will be found . 
While conscription can be ruled out , it may be that some limited numbers of reserve units may be affected . 
Steps have been taken to meet some key deficiencies in B.A.O.R. by transferring about 100 ancillary troops from overseas . 
As B.A.O.R. is short of specialists it is likely that the strategic reserve division in Britain is also deficient , and to bring it to full strength it is unlikely that further depletion of overseas garrisons can be countenanced . 
AMERICAN CRITICISM 
How far Britain 's moves to strengthen her reserves will meet American criticism remains to be seen . 
But it is unlikely that America 's plan for a three-stage defence structure will be followed . 
Under this plan Washington aims to meet an initial enemy conventional onslaught with conventional weapons . 
If these fail tactical nuclear weapons will be used , and finally strategic nuclear weapons . 
But the British defence policy , as laid down in the 1957 Sandys Plan , is showing signs of wobbling . 
Defence spokesmen now qualify the statement that nuclear retaliation would be used in any major Russian aggression by saying that the use of nuclear weapons would depend on the circumstances , strength and area of the attack . 
Privately , some defence officials go even further and say that the original Sandys policy is " dead as a dodo . " 
DE GAULLE WILL SEE PREMIER ON BERLIN BY GORDON BROOK-SHEPHERD Sunday Telegraph Diplomatic Correspondent 
PRESIDENT and Madame de Gaulle will pay a private visit to Britain from Nov. 24 to 26 as guests of Mr Macmillan and his wife . 
A French statement on the visit said both leaders felt the time had come for " a frank exchange of views on the international situation and especially about the tactics to be adopted towards easing tension with Russia . " 
It is believed in London that nearly all the weekend visit will be devoted to what one British official described as " quiet and intense business talks . " 
I understand the main purpose of the meeting will be to plot an agreed Western approach to the Berlin and German issues . 
At present the West is moving forward in a sort of ragged Indian file with the French almost out of contact in the rear . 
Concession Made 
In the last few days General de Gaulle is reported to have won what amounts to an important concession from his allies . 
A major policy switch has been tentatively agreed between the British , Americans and West Germans which partly reflects the French line of remaining " tough " with Mr Khruschev . 
It is understood that the British and American envoys in Moscow have been empowered if necessary to seek an emergency standstill agreement with the Russians on the Berlin situation alone as a first step to broader negotiations . 
This could be informal in the sense that no document need be signed . 
Short-term Basis 
It could be reached at ambassadorial level , taking the form of an East-West declaration re-affirming Allied rights and responsibilities in Berlin , if only on a short-term basis . 
The purpose would be to remove the fuse from the Berlin bomb . 
This approach would represent a complete change of strategy from that favoured in the talks with the Soviet Foreign Minister , Mr. Gromyko , less than a month ago . 
Then the Anglo-American emphasis was on seeking a broader agenda to avoid a debate on the vulnerable question of Berlin alone . 
French and West German fears that such a broader agenda would involve the West in dangerous concessions have contributed to the latest change . 
So has the mounting tension in Berlin . 
The West now seems to have adopted Mr. Khruschev 's famous " salami " tactics in trying to solve the problem slice by slice . 
If a short term stabilisation agreement can be reached on Berlin in the next few weeks the problem of increasing contacts between East and West Germany could be tackled as a separate step . 
The final phase would be a formal top level agreement . 
The possibility is not ruled out in London that Mr. Khruschev may try to exploit President Kennedy 's impatience with Western differences of opinion . 
This he would do by trying to bargain direct with Washington . 
Private Contacts 
As part of this campaign an invitation may well be sent to the American Secretary of State , Mr. Dean Rusk , to visit Moscow . 
The Russians are thought to have been encouraged along these lines by the progress made in New York towards solving the United Nations crisis through repeated private contacts between the Soviet and American chief delegates there , Mr. Zorin and Mr. Stevenson . 
RUSSIA AND CHINA IN STRUGGLE FOR AFRICA BY OUR DIPLOMATIC CORRESPONDENT 
NEW evidence has reached London of the struggle between the Russians and the Chinese to dominate the mind of Africa . 
It illustrates that global rivalry between Peking and Moscow , of which the current dispute over Albania is only the symbol . 
In at least one of the new African states , Somalia , the two Communist powers have begun to clash head-on . 
The Russians , who have built up a huge Embassy with a staff of nearly 300 in Mogadishu , the capital , support the established Government . 
The Chinese operate through a smaller mission , but have a New China News Agency in addition , whereas the Russians have no Tass representation . 
The Chinese policy is one of outright support for the dissident opposition groups , including the extremist Pan-Somali Movement . 
This aims at uniting all Somalis , including those in neighbouring Kenya and Ethiopia , under one rule . 
Chinese support takes the form of secret money subsidies , and the inviting of Somali dissidents to Peking . 
Here some of them are said to have been given guerrilla training , on the pattern recently reported for candidates from the Cameroun Republic . 
Moscow Concern 
Russian disavowal of the Pan-Somalis is partly based on Moscow 's concern for good relations with Ethiopia , where a major Soviet effort is being made . 
But the issue is also a basic ideological one . 
Throughout Africa , the Chinese are putting forward their militant brand of Communism as the true model for the new black states and are openly decrying the more moderate Soviet line . 
To support this campaign , the Chinese have developed a radio propaganda barrage nearly twice as heavy as the Russian effort . 
Peking Radio now has a total output of 91 hours a week broadcasting to Africa . 
This is far more than any other station in the world and compares with the Soviet Union 's tally of 54 1/2 hours a week . 
Seven different Chinese agencies have been identified running operations inside Africa itself . 
All have been founded in the last 18 months and three sprang into life this year . 
The Difference 
They operate along unorthodox but highly effective lines . 
Whereas the Russians keep mainly to standard cultural missions and student training schemes , the Chinese get down to jungle roots . 
They are covering the dark continent with troupes of acrobats , dancers and jugglers who travel from village to village . 
Needless to say the jugglers start spinning Marxist slogans as soon as they have finished their advertised act . 
The Somali pattern of more or less open conflict is repeated in Guinea . 
The other main centres of Chinese penetration are the Cote d'Ivoire , Zanzibar and Mozambique . 
A major Chinese agitation is predicted by Western observers soon among the black population of South Africa . 
This would give Peking a hold on the tip of the continent , as well as at strategic points up both the East and the West coasts . 
Soviet Tanks " Out-Faced " by Americans From REGINALD PECK Sunday Telegraph Special Correspondent BERLIN , Saturday . 
THE withdrawal of Russian and American tanks from the Friedrichstrasse crossing point today brought some relaxation of tension in Berlin . 
But the opposing tanks remained within a mile of each other . 
First to back down in the war of nerves were the Russians , and as their T-34 tanks rumbled away an American official was heard to say : " We seem to have faced the Russian Ivan . " 
About 90 minutes later the 10 American tanks retired . 
The Americans have now stated that they intend for the time being to give up their practice of enforcing their right of uncontrolled access to East Berlin by sending officials through the Friedrichstrasse checkpoint with armed escorts . 
They say , " our point has now been made . " 
U.S. plane 's defiance 
Less than half an hour after the American tanks had withdrawn , a United States Air Force C-47 defied a Russian protest against overflying East Berlin . 
It circled for about ten minutes at about 600 feet over an area where 40 Russian tanks were parked . 
Col. Soloviev , the Russian Commandant in Berlin last night sent two letters to the American Commandant , one of which protested against United States helicopters flying over East Berlin . 
The American mission in Berlin today said their planes have every right to fly over all of the city . 
Up to this morning it had seemed that the dangerous situation that built up suddenly at dusk last night when the Russian tanks arrived might continue indefinitely . 
Angry West Berliners twice mobbed Russian cars , booing and kicking the vehicles . 
Before the departure of the Russian tanks the East German Communists staged a propaganda demonstration by sending youths and girls to present the crews with flowers and chocolates . 
Earlier , West Berlin civilians had taken flowers to the crews of the two foremost American tanks . 
It had been reported that more Russian tanks have reached East Berlin . 
I drove through the Eastern sector but saw nothing more than military jeeps outside the ruins of the Prinzenpalais in Unter den Linden , where the first Russian tanks were based 48 hours ago . 
At " checkpoint Charlie " my passport was examined by Communist guards and I was asked if I was carrying East German money , coffee or cocoa . 
The only civilian in sight was a grey-haired woman who said she had lost her way but gave the impression she had hoped to slip through to the West . 
MR . 
BROWN " WORRIED " BY B.A.O.R. SUNDAY TELEGRAPH REPORTER 
MR . 
GEORGE BROWN , the Labour Party 's spokesman on defence , arrived at London Airport yesterday after a four-day inspection of the British Army of the Rhine . 
He said he was more worried after his visit than before . 
Although no units were dangerously undermanned , the Army was a few thousand short of its peacetime establishment and well below the strength that would be needed in war . 
There was a particular shortage of men in medical units . 
In equipment there was a shortage of radios , some arms and armoured personnel carriers . 
Britain 's commitment in Europe should be given top priority . 
Other overseas commitments , particularly in the Far East , should be re-examined to see if such large numbers of men need be tied down . 
Conscription was not the answer to the need for men . 
Asked if Britain was capable of fulfilling its role in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation , he replied : " We are as well able to do it as anyone else . 
" The men are well trained and well deployed . 
But it is the role of the whole N.A.T.O . 
army that worries me and our role in that . 
" While I am clear myself on what that role is , I am not sure whether the politicians ' statements are clear to the military generals and to Air Force chiefs . " 
DORNIERS FOR NEW KATANGA AIR FORCE FROM A SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT ELIZABETHVILLE , SATURDAY . 
FIVE twin-engined German Dorniers for the new Air Force which President Tshombe is forming , have been delivered to Elizabethville . 
They are the first of nearly 50 planes which have been ordered to strengthen Katanga 's defences . 
I flew here from Munich in one of the planes after meeting the pilots , two British , one Belgian and two French . 
BOMBERS RACING TO KUWAIT More troops ready to go NEWS OF THE WORLD DIPLOMATIC CORRESPONDENT 
MORE British troops , aircraft and warships are racing to Kuwait this morning from Germany , Cyprus , Kenya and even the Far East . 
The British military authorities describe the operation as " a very rapid build-up . " 
In New York the Security Council is meeting at 11 a.m. today at the special request of both Britain and Kuwait . 
And in Washington the State Department of the United States has endorsed Britain 's show of force , expressing the hope that it will help to assure the preservation of peace . 
In London yesterday , as the first British troops and aircraft went in and Royal Navy warships circled in the off-shore Gulf heat-haze Mr. Macmillan called an emergency meeting of Cabinet Ministers and Service Chiefs . 
Mr. Hugh Gaitskell , Leader of the Opposition , went to Admiralty House to hear the inside story of the situation from the Premier . 
Then last night at Bowood , Calne , Wilts , the Premier , speaking to the Wessex area Conservative Rally , explained what the Government is doing about the threat by Premier Kassem of Iraq to annexe Kuwait — and why . 
" I still trust that threats against Kuwait are no more than words and that the Government of Iraq will refrain from any aggressive action , " he said . 
But he added , " We must take no risk and in view of the language that is being used and the indications of a military build-up which may threaten Kuwait , we have thought it right to respond to the urgent and formal request which the ruler has made to us that we should give him some protectionary strength . " 
TANKS 
Mr. Gaitskell , speaking at Bristol , said he could not see how Britain could have refused to help Kuwait . 
But our troops should not stay there a day longer than necessary . 
The United Nations should be asked to put in a force to replace them as soon as possible . 
The first British troops in , about 600 Royal Marines of 42 Commando and 150 men of the Third Dragoon Guards with 14 Centurion tanks , went ashore at Kuwait in a shade temperature of 120 degrees . 
The Marines had come racing up the searingly hot Persian Gulf in the Royal Navy carrier Bulwark , which set out from Karachi on Thursday . 
And the Dragoon Guards were put ashore from the tank landing ship Striker , which arrived with an amphibious warfare squadron . 
Almost simultaneously a squadron of R.A.F. Hawker Hunter jet fighters came screaming in for a landing . 
They are believed to have flown from Kenya . 
Off-shore , meanwhile , the British frigate Loch Alvie and the vessels of the amphibious warfare squadron circled before anchoring , apparently just outside the three-mile limit . 
ALERTED 
Soon afterwards it was announced in Kuwait that an unknown number of Saudi Arabian troops had also arrived . 
And that eight R.A.F. Canberra jet bombers from Germany had reached the Persian Gulf air base at Sharjah . 
Two squadrons of Canberra bombers from Cyprus were reported to have arrived at Aden on their way to Kuwait . 
Men of the Devonshire and Dorset Regiments and the 2nd Battalion of the Parachute Regiment in Cyprus were said to have been alerted for a move . 
And from Kenya there were reports that the men of the Coldstream Guards and King 's Regiment were soon ready to be airlifted North as soon as aircraft became available . 
In Kuwait plans were being made to evacuate the 3,000 or so Britons who live there . 
But it was stated officially that there are no thoughts of evacuation unless the situation deteriorates seriously . 
And the Kuwait Supreme Council announced that the frontier with Iraq had been closed . 
Terms before we join Common Market 
BRITAIN has made it quite clear that she must make conditions before joining the Common Market " in its present form , " said Mr. R. A. Butler yesterday . 
" We are determined to safeguard the interests of our farmers , our Commonwealth partners and our friends in the European Free Trade Association , " he told Conservatives at Harrogate . 
Mr. Butler , who was speaking as Chairman of the Conservative Party , said no decision had yet been reached even to enter into formal negotiations for joining . 
If we reached some agreement there would have to be major changes , he said . 
He warned that industry would have to face more competition from European goods . 
A paper published yesterday by the non-Party P.E.P . 
( Political and Economic Planning ) says most British farmers will not be adversely affected if Britain joins the Market . 
Some farmers might gain . 
But horticulturists " would have to meet keener competition unless imports were restricted by some other means than tariffs . " 
The National Farmers ' Union said the P.E.P . 
study did not show that farmers would be as well-off on a long-term basis under Common Market terms . 
NOW KRUSCHEV HOTS UP THE BERLIN CRISIS From A. NOYES THOMAS WEST BERLIN , Saturday . 
MR . 
KRUSCHEV today made two ominous moves — and another threatening statement — on the heightening German crisis . 
He suspended all planned reductions in Soviet armed forces . 
He stepped-up Soviet military expenditure by more than 30 per cent . 
And he said : — 
"We shall sign a peace treaty with East Germany and order our armed forces to administer a worthy rebuff to any aggressor if he raises his hand against the Soviet Union or our friends . 
" It is best for those who think of war not to imagine that distance will save them ..... 
We have everything at our disposal to solve successfully the responsible tasks facing us . " 
The speech , broadcast by Moscow radio , coincided with a meeting on the Berlin and German problem between President Kennedy and his top advisers . 
Razor edge 
And while the Soviet leader was talking the Nato Council in Paris received from Washington the text of a Note which the United States Government will shortly deliver to the Kremlin . 
The contents of the Note , which is in reply to one handed to President Kennedy in Vienna on June 4 , are not known . 
But it is believed to reject Mr. Kruschev 's demands . 
As the news pours in from around the world , beleagured Berlin this weekend is a city on a razor 's edge . 
Until 24 hours or so ago West Berliners , who have been building up vast stocks of food against the possibility of another siege of their city , believed the West was determined to stand fast in the face of all Communist threats . 
But then from Washington came seemingly authoritative reports that the Americans might not be prepared to risk war on these issues after all . 
From this distance it appears that the United States Government is ready to accept East German control of the West 's tenuous life-lines through the Communist Zone to the isolated city . 
I have just had a long talk with the man at the centre of the crisis , Herr Willy Brandt , Mayor of West Berlin and a strong candidate for the Chancellorship of Western Germany . 
Kruschev , he believes , has become " a prisoner of his own words . " 
After years of bluffing over East Germany and West Berlin the Soviet leader is faced at last with the necessity of doing something about it , whether he likes it or not . 
One reason : to satisfy the impatient leaders of impoverished , struggling East Germany who , says Herr Brandt , in many respects tend to be more Russian than the Russians . 
Herr Brandt has no doubt whatsoever that Mr. Kruschev really does intend this time to make a separate peace treaty with East Germany . 
Privately , though , Herr Brandt is not at all convinced that the Russians see eye to eye with the East Germans over a change in the status of West Berlin . 
This in spite of the fact that Soviet propaganda frequently refers to the present set-up as "a thorn in the flesh , " "a bone in the throat " and "a base for hostile , provocative activity . " 
"Look at it this way , " says the young handsome mayor " Every week between 4,000 and 5,000 East Germans escape into West Germany , many of them through West Berlin . 
" Every day crowds of East Berliners come into West Berlin to goggle at the prosperity here before returning to their own drab side of the city where , 16 years after the war , meat and butter are still rationed . 
" All this is galling to the East German authorities , but the Russians , I suspect , see West Berlin as a safety valve . 
It calms the feelings of many in East Germany to know that their symbol of freedom is here , close by ; to know that there is a way out . 
" Remove that safety valve and things might begin to happen in East Germany . 
Not a revolution , maybe . 
But sabotage , more go-slow campaigns , all kinds of passive resistance . " 
Herr Brandt believes that until now the Russians have actually vetoed East German plans to stop the flow of refugees . 
Today Gerhard Eiseler , the East German propaganda chief , made a speech hinting at a new war of nerves against West Berlin . 
Says Herr Brandt : " If it comes it may be far less dramatic , though no less dangerous , than most people expect . " 
He can not see it taking as blunt a turn as a new blockade on the scale of the last one . 
COME ON BRITAIN ! 
By The Chancellor We 've got to pull up our socks BY OUR POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT 
GRIM-FACED and speaking with quiet emphasis , Mr. Selwyn Lloyd gave the country a tough pep talk yesterday . 
Come on , Britain , we 've got to pull up our socks — that was the burden of his fighting speech in which he announced that he will tell the House of Commons on Tuesday week the means he proposes to take to get Britain out of the red . 
He added that on this " Little Budget Day " he will recommend " such action as I think necessary , however unpopular or unexpected . " 
"I am not afraid , " he said , " to ask the British people to bear the necessary burdens or accept the necessary disciplines designed to secure not just the survival but also the maintenance of our position as an up-to-date , progressive , dynamic influence on the world . " 
Today the Chancellor will go to Chequers to join a Cabinet house-party where his new measures to deal with Britain 's financial crisis will be on the agenda . 
Here are other points from his speech yesterday , delivered at a Conservative fete at Hawarden , Flintshire . 
" The trade balance at the present time , in spite of better figures announced yesterday is unsatisfactory . 
" In a tough competitive world , we as a nation are not doing well enough . 
That is not a new discovery . 
I have warned the country again and again of this since I became Chancellor . 
" THE TASK 
" The time is long past when as individuals , or as a nation we can expect to live beyond our means . 
In the long run , as individuals , we can not take out in real income more than we contribute in production or services . 
" We can not achieve stability , let alone speed up our economic growth , until we have made an improvement in our export performance far beyond anything we have yet achieved . 
" We can not hope to do this without a tougher and more competitive spirit in industry , a far more critical attitude towards costs , whatever their origin , a relentless rooting-out of all inefficiency , restrictiveness and waste , whether it be of capital resources or of labour . 
" We can not afford the restrictive practices , whether of management or labour , that are far too readily accepted now . 
" We can not afford the easy complacency with which increases in costs derived from these and similar inefficiencies are added to prices in the confidence that the customer will pay . 
" It is not just a matter of working a good deal harder before we really earn the incomes that are paid . 
" Harder work is needed ; but above all we need more drive and better direction , more efficiency and economy in our effort . 
" OVERDRAWN 
"And an inner conviction that these things really matter — and indeed are essential if we are not to slip back into becoming a second-rate economy with declining standards of living . 
" We can not reward ourselves in advance of actual achievement by increased money incomes , whether in the form of dividends , profits or wages . " 
SUPER RACING PIC SPONSORS WORLD SPEEDWAY SURPRISE By Don Clarke 
GOT your ticket for the Sunday Pictorial sponsored World Championship Speedway British Final ( start 7.15 p.m. ) at Wembley Stadium on Saturday ? 
Do n't waste time . 
The meeting is not being televised , and although admission can be obtained on the night , tickets for this " Night of Nights " are going fast . 
Speedway history should be made at Wembley . 
Sixteen top British stars , and possibly two Continental aces , will battle for Pic-sponsored championships . 
Never before have fans been promised such a feast of speed with reigning World Champion Ove Fundin sparking the flame that could set the meeting alight . 
Fundin holds the Pic 's British Match Race and " Golden Helmet " title , and is defending his crown against Southampton 's Bjorn Knutsson . 
At Southampton Fundin was beaten in two straight runs and suffered the indignity of crashing and wrecking his machine in his effort to conquer Knutsson . 
Temper and the needle element flared . 
A SCORCHER AT NORWICH 
THE second leg takes place at Norwich next Friday — and Fundin should even the score . 
If this happens , the final leg will be decided at Wembley next Saturday , before the sixteen riders stake claims for the British title and £720 Pic prize money , which will be presented by stage and screen comedian Terry-Thomas . 
In the field will be four former World Champions , Ronnie Moore , Jack Young , Barry Briggs and Peter Craven . 
For Wimbledon 's Ronnie Moore , twice Champion , this may be his last season after ten World Finals . 
Jack Young is also a doubtful starter next year . 
Plymouth 's Jack Scott , introduced to speedway by Jack Young , is the only Provincial League rider in a star-studded line-up . 
Last year he won a sizeable sum of money on the football pools and wisely invested part of his winnings in buying good equipment . 
The fact that he rides in such exalted company will not deter Scott . 
MIKE MEANS BUSINESS 
NINE months ago Mike Broadbanks ( Swindon ) was advised by his doctors to quit speedway . 
But the " Red Devil " possesses a stubborn streak , and has proved them all wrong by battling his way to Wembley . 
That is a pen picture of half a dozen aces . 
The other ten competitors can well upset the applecart for the favourites . 
Ron How , Bob Andrews , Cyril Maidment ( Wimbledon ) ; Peter Moore , Ray Cresp ( Ipswich ) ; Ken McKinlay ( Leicester ) ; Doug . 
Davies ( New Cross ) ; Neil Street ( Swindon ) ; Ronnie Genz ( Oxford ) , and Nigel Boocock ( Coventry ) are capable of ignoring reputations . 
Looks like being quite a dust up . 
I say once again , book your tickets NOW . 
These can be obtained from your local tracks until Tuesday , or direct from Speedway Box Office , Wembley Stadium , Wembley , Middlesex . 
Prices are : Covered seats : 21s. , 12s. 6d. , 10s. 6d . 
Uncovered : 8s. , 6s . 
Standing : 3s. 6d . 
PLUCKY GELSON Brentford 1 . 
Reading 2 . 
GOAL-HAPPY Reading turned in the kind of powerhouse performance that has brought them twelve goals in their opening three games of the season . 
They also handed out a vital Soccer lesson to unfortunate Brentford — how to snap up chances ! 
Brentford played some promising stuff in midfield , but were unable to put it to advantage . 
Reading were matched in approach work ; never in finishing power . 
Peter Gelson , their burly young centre half , was Brentford 's defensive star in pluckily holding out the determined Reading raids for long periods . 
Webb scored Reading 's second-half winner , a Vallard penalty being their other . 
An own goal from Splers was Brentford 's only consolation . 
Sillett off A. Villa 3 . 
Chelsea 1 . 
TRAGEDY hit this match in the sixty-fifth minute when Chelsea skipper and left back Peter Sillett broke a leg , writes ARCHIE QUICK . 
Chelsea , inspired by the trickery of little David Cliss , played delightful attacking football till the interval , but , as usual , they flattered to deceive , and had fallen from their standard before the Sillett accident . 
Chelsea moved well at the start , despite Villa 's seventh-minute lead . 
Bobby Thompson headed through following a corner . 
Chelsea , however , equalised after twenty-four minutes . 
Cliss cleverly flicked the ball to Ron Tindall , who pushed it through for Bobby Tambling to score . 
Dougan 's persistency enabled young Harry Burrows to put Villa ahead seconds after the interval , and he bustled to good purpose in the goalmouth when the other winger , Jimmy MacEwan , got No. 3 from long distance . 
DYSON GRAB Spurs 4 , Arsenal 3 : By SAM LEITCH 
CHEEKY , cocky left winger Terry Dyson and his hell-of-a-hat-trick squeezed both points Spurs ' way . 
But , oh , what vile luck for the Gunners ! 
Eighteen minutes from the end , Spurs were trailing 2-3 after having led 2-0 inside twenty minutes . 
After an Alan Skirton goal , an Arsenal transformation was worked by the magic head of Mel Charles . 
Twice he outjumped the tall , commanding Tottenham defenders . 
Twice he scored — in the 67th and 72nd minutes . 
Two glorious goals — again Mel looked every inch as good as his big brother John in getting them — and they put Arsenal in command . 
Then enter whirlwind Dyson . 
He had already notched one superbly-headed goal in the first half . 
But never was his punch and pace needed so much as now by his gasping , back-pedalling team-mates . 
There were ten minutes left . 
Arsenal strutted . 
Arsenal looked mighty good ... 
But tiny Terry wagged his foot at a Cliff Jones corner and the ball was scrambled home for a dramatic Spurs equaliser . 
Arsenal descended on referee Reg Leafe in an angry swarm . 
Dyson had handled , they said . 
Leafe decisively let the goal stand . 
The Gunners and their fans were still fuming when Dyson lammed in Spurs ' match-winner off the post . 
This is a good Arsenal side . 
They will not meet Dyson 's devilish opportunism every week . 
And they wo n't have so much bad luck . 
Their first-half inferiority was caused by the total inability of Mel Charles to get by centre half Maurice Norman . 
Mel wandered like a big boy lost . 
In that time a Les Allen header put Spurs one up , and Dyson got the second . 
Arsenal keeper McLelland , who had to leave the field three minutes before the end after colliding with Allen , has slight concussion . 
LESLIE IN SPIN TRAP Wolves 3 , West Ham 2 : By STAN HALSEY 
WEST HAM took the lead in eighteen minutes . 
Musgrove side-stepped a defender and scored a masterly goal with a twenty-yard rising drive . 
And though Murray equalised in thirty-three minutes , West Ham were still going steadily . 
Then disaster struck . 
It was in the fifty-fifth minute . 
Alan Hinton , Wolves ' left winger who was playing his first League game , harassed Kirkup into conceding a corner . 
Deeley , his opposite number , took a hopeful kind of hook shot . 
The ball seemed to be going away and West Ham 's goalkeeper , Laurie Leslie , thought danger had been averted . 
But the ball developed such a crazy spin that Leslie could not cope with it . 
That goal was just the tonic Wolves needed , and in the sixty-third minute Murray , capping a slick combined move , made the score 3-1 . 
Three minutes from the end a typical bit of Woosnam Soccer technique laid on a ball from which Sealey scored West Ham 's second goal . 
Grimsby ... 3 
Southend ... 1 
WITHIN thirty seconds of the start , Grimsby 'keeper Malcolm White had his hands warmed by shots from Southend leader Norman Bleanch and right winger Tony Bentley and he got little respite from the visiting sharpshooters . 
But despite their superiority Southend 's ninth minute goal had more than a rub of good fortune about it . 
A blind drive by Bleanch went off a defender to outside left Bob Kellard , who easily beat White with a close range shot . 
Ron Rafferty headed Grimsby 's sixtieth minute and Mike Cullen grabbed the lead by finishing off another Rafferty header . 
And only a minute from the end , left winger Cliff Jones cut in to net just inside the near post . 
Cool Neill is twice given slip Bolton 2 , Arsenal 1 : By JIM BEECROFT 
BURLY Billy McAdams , Bolton centre forward , and Terry Neill , lanky centre half of Arsenal , set a poser for the Northern Ireland selectors , some of whom watched this game at Burnden . 
For large parts of a moderate match young Neill , regarded as a fine international prospect , snuffed the experienced McAdams completely out of the play . 
Often Neill 's cool and resourceful covering made Arsenal 's suspect defence seem better than it really was , and left McAdams looking far from a top-line leader . 
BRILLIANT 
But twice , the tough and persistent McAdams evaded the Neill obstacle with two brilliant pieces of opportunism and chalked up two goals which deservedly gave Bolton their second victory of the season . 
First of these came in the thirty-sixth minute when McAdams swiftly snapped up a chance inside the penalty area , swivelled in a flash and fired smartly past the bewildered McLelland . 
This goal , which wiped out a similar effort by Arsenal centre forward Mel Charles , was the only thing McAdams had done right until then . 
And he did little else until he scored another fine goal in seventy-five minutes when he beat two men in a yard or so and whizzed a terrific 20-yard shot into the net . 
Though the Arsenal goal had had several narrow escapes , especially when shots from Holden and Pilkington hit the bar , it was not until after the second McAdams goal that Bolton assumed full command . 
But neither team looked as if they had any chance of becoming championship contenders . 
BRILLIANT BRIGGS IS TOP MAN 
NEW ZEALAND and Southampton Speedway ace Barry Briggs won the Sunday Pictorial-sponsored British final of the world championship at Wembley Stadium last night . 
After twenty pulsating heats Briggs , winner of the world title in 1957 and 1958 , showed his world class when he notched fifteen immaculate points to win the Pic 's first prize of £300 , presented to him by comedian Terry-Thomas . 
Pint-sized Peter Craven ( Belle Vue and England ) took the second prize of £150 , while Wimbledon and New Zealand star Ronnie Moore gained third place for a prize of £80 . 
MY HEROES 
Without detracting from the superb performance of Briggs , Craven and Moore , my heroes of the night were two Englishmen — Swindon 's Mike Broadbanks and Wimbledon 's Cyril Maidment . 
Both these boys set the 50,000 crowd alight in Heat 4 when Maidment , last out of the starting gate , showed he had no big night nerves in his first Wembley final . 
For four laps , he and Broadbanks put up a terrific tussle , with Broadbanks just clinching victory . 
Maidment continued his rip-roaring , full-throttle riding in his next four rides . 
Although outclassed in his last outing , he notched seven points on the night to stake a claim for the world final at Malmo on September 15 . 
TRAGEDY 
Tragedy struck Broadbanks after his first ride . 
An attack of asthma left him gasping for air and how he managed to stay on his machine for four more rides , let alone score four more points and a place at Malmo is beyond me . 
Beside riding for £720 Pic prize money , the sixteen riders were also battling for nine places in the World Final at Malmo , and results proved that class tells . 
The other six riders who go forward to the Malmo final are from : 
Ron How , Bob Andrews ( Wimbledon ) , Ken McKinlay ( Leicester ) , 9 pts. ; Ray Cresp ( Ipswich ) , 8 pts. , Jack Young ( Coventry ) , Ronnie Genz ( Oxford ) , Cyril Maidment ( Wimbledon ) and Mike Broadbanks ( Swindon ) , 7 pts . 
Young , Genz , Maidment and Broadbanks will have to run to decide who will be odd man out at Malmo on September 15 , where they clash with seven Continentals for the honour of wearing the World crown . 
The seven Continentals are : Reigning World Champion Ove Fundin ( Sweden ) , Bjorn Knutsson ( Sweden ) , Igor Piechanov ( Russia ) , Rune Sormander ( Sweden ) , Florian Kapala ( Poland ) , Stanislaw Txocz ( Czechoslovakia ) and Gote Nordin ( Sweden ) . 
BIG SEARCH IN SCOTLAND by STAN HALSEY 
Cheque in Scotland ! 
Excuse the play on words , but that 's what it could amount to where Spurs and Chelsea are concerned . 
Bill Nicholson , Spurs boss , has money to spend to maintain Tottenham 's Double Top League and Cup glamour . 
He made another quiet trip across the border the other day and had a look at Third Lanark outside right , David Hilley , who would n't mind a tilt at Sassenach fame and fortune . 
Only Avon 's Pride gives full value in Cesarewitch by TOM FORREST 
HORSE-RACING 'S happiest invalid today is jockey Bobby Elliot . 
He broke a collarbone only last Thursday , yet his specialist declares that in three or four days he should be fit for riding gallops ... and then for the plum job of the week — pushing home Avon 's Pride in the Cesarewitch at Newmarket on Saturday . 
Young bones mend quickly . 
But the back of a big-race favourite is no place for a jockey with one wing trailing , so Elliot will have to pass a pretty stiff midweek try-out — or trainer Dick Hern must find a substitute . 
Top-class riders are still available ... like Ron Hutchinson or , at a pound or two overweight , Scobie Breasley or Eph Smith , the most likely choice as he rode Avon 's Pride in his gallop yesterday morning . 
Avon 's Pride becomes my final selection , because he alone of the three Cesarewitch horses recommended a week ago for Autumn Double bets remains as a first-rate value-for-money proposition . 
TUMBLED 
El Surpriso , 33-1 last week-end , has been slashed to 12-1 . 
And Alcoa 's odds have tumbled from 25-1 to 14-1 . 
They could still win , but if you have to take these new prices it looks as if you have already " missed the boat . " 
Avon 's Pride has been reduced too , but less spectacularly — from 14-1 to 12-1 . 
This is a rate that could still be confidently accepted without the feeling of being short-changed . 
The four-year-old 's chance is outstanding . 
He has the speed ... any horse who can play so powerful a part in shorter races , as in the 1 1/4-mile Vaux Gold Tankard and Ebor Handicap , will not be found short of sheer pace with half a mile further to go . 
He has the stamina ... the big win of the season for Avon 's Pride was in Epsom 's Roseberry Handicap , of the same 2 1/4-mile length as the Cesarewitch . 
He has the courage ... no horse can do without a stout heart under the ordeal of that long , lung-bursting Cesarewitch straight . 
And in Avon 's Pride 's whole career he has been often outpointed but never outbattled . 
The weight . 
At 7st. 11lb. , 3lb. below the middle of the range , the handicapper has certainly taken an indulgent line . 
Direct form , this season 's form , suggests that two of his most heavily backed rivals — Angazi ( 12-1 ) and Trelawny ( 14-1 ) — must produce quite unexpected reserves to beat Avon 's Pride this week . 
And through these horses most of the others can be declared safely held . 
Technique , rather than tactics , will be needed from the jockey . 
The Cesarewitch is always a hard-run struggle from the start ... that will suit Avon 's Pride , but the rider must use a hustling , strong-arm style , or the colt might well idle his chance away . 
AUTHORITY 
El Surpriso is one they all have to beat . 
There was no mistaking the authority of her win at Nottingham last week , and with a mere 7st. 1lb. , and the energetic Ray Reader riding , this filly could be the weak link to wreck the whole handicap . 
Almost as lightly burdened at 7st. 2lb. , is Alcoa . 
Though less obviously " thrown in " at the weights , Alcoa is such a rugged , unrelenting stayer that Mick Greening is sure to be driving her down the straight with glowing visions of galloping them all into the ground . 
Among the class horses — the top half dozen , with weights of 8st. 9lb. or more — Lester Piggott 's mount , Sunny Way ( 20-1 ) , is the only one I seriously fear . 
Morecambe is left out because no eight-year-old has ever won the race ; Farrney Fox because his recent form is sadly degenerate ; New Brig because he has not raced since May ; Agreement because he no longer has the force that once won him two Doncaster Cups ; Trelawny because it takes almost 2 1/4 miles before he starts to warm up . 
Neither 1959 winner Come to Daddy nor his stablemate and brother Usurper has lived up to high hopes this season . 
While Honest Boy Aristarchus , Cold Comfort , Tarquinian and Narratus are run-of-the-mill stayers who could run well ... but hardly well enough . 
SUSPECT 
Persian Lancer 's stamina is suspect for a horse at the short odds of 12-1 — I believe he will last out only on the best of going . 
And Utrillo ( 25-1 ) will not race at all on soft ground — he sulks unless he can hear his feet rattle . 
Hock-deep mud would be ideal though for Annotation ( 20-1 ) and Python ( 20-1 ) , both powerful but one-paced plodders . 
And game little Angazi is a proven mudlark . 
In Python 's stablemate , Night Porter , we have the crankiest character of them all — but a real live one at 40-1 , if you care to take a chance on his missing any mud that may be flying from his rivals ' heels . 
He will refuse to race if any hits his face . 
None of the others seems at all likely to win , and I rate Night Porter and Sunny Way the best of the long shots . 
But the final placings I hope for are AVON 'S PRIDE 1 , El Surpriso 2 , Alcoa 3 . 
JUST GREAT OUR " ARC " BEST 
A BRAVE turnout of British horses — Just Great , High Hat and Tenacity — take the field at Longchamp this afternoon to challenge the Swashbuckling European champion , Right Royal 5 , in the £50,000 Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe . 
Ours is a team without a captain . 
But even with the stay-at-home ace St. Paddy , waiting for a second-division fade-out at Newmarket on Friday , Britain 's prestige need not suffer in Paris . 
Nobody would call the three raiders a force to flash triumphantly through the richest race this side of the Atlantic . 
But neither are they , as the French believe , just so many sitting targets to be blasted aside in the hurricane rush of Right Royal . 
JUST GREAT is no sitter ... though he staged something like a sit-down strike at the starting gate to lose his St. Leger chance . 
He lost the Derby too through rough-house treatment by other horses . 
In four remaining races this year , Just Great had a fair chance , and won them all . 
I make him best of the British . 
New partner Lester Piggott must get him off with the rest , steer clear of trouble ... and who knows to what heights Just Great may rise ? 
Formidable 
HIGH HAT is less of a mystery . 
We know he is no match for St. Paddy , but he has matched , and mastered , Petite Etoile . 
That is a formidable qualification . 
Duncan Keith rides . 
TENACITY has not yet attacked the top class . 
But what an improver this enormous , late-developing filly is . 
Yet to make any of our trio more than an each-way bet would be more patriotic than prudent . 
Right Royal is not the only star in opposition . 
Match 3 will be there ... cantering winner of the French St. Leger . 
So will stablemate Dicta Drake , on whom Max Garcia has a chance to make amends for the suicidal tactics which cost them the Doncaster St. Leger . 
Italian crack Molvedo , with a runaway success at Deauville on his last French trip , shapes like another Ribot . 
So he should — he is a son of Ribot , and Ribot 's jockey , veteran Enrico Camiel rides him too . 
But in that chestnut-strewn Longchamp paddock they will all be dominated by the magnificence of the loose-limbed giant RIGHT ROYAL . 
And all logic points to his being as dictatorial on the track as in the pre-race parade . 
T. F. This is Lochroe all over again says DICK FRANCIS 
I TOOK a ride , a few days ago , on an echo from the past — on a small-framed , brown four-year-old named Vulgate . 
The echo ? — from Lochroe . 
They are half brothers out of the mare Loch Cash , and were sired by the top jumping stallions Vulgan and King Hal . 
Vulgate looks as intelligent and handles as easily as Lochroe — and jumps in the same style . 
If he moves less perfectly , it is because Lochroe was the best-moving 'chaser I have known . 
Trained by Bill Marshall at Cheltenham , the beautifully broken-in youngster can be seen on Saturday at Fontwell , where he comes out for the first time this season in the handicap hurdle ( 4.15 ) . 
At home he does not wear shoes on his hind feet . 
None of the Marshall horses do . 
This ensures that if a hindleg strikes a foreleg — a frequent occurrence — the injury is restricted to bruising . 
No shoes are needed for road work . 
The stable yard , on the top of Cleeve Hill overlooking Cheltenham racecourse leads straight out on to open commons . 
It is usual for a mare who has produced one winning jumper to produce others , even if not of the same standard , and generally in steeplechasers it is the influence of the mare which predominates . 
If one of her progeny jumps well , they all do , ( and if one jumps appallingly they all do ! ) , regardless of the sire . 
Most remarkable examples of half-brothers are Gay Donald and Pas Seul . 
Both these Gold Cup winners — by Gay Light and Erin 's Pride respectively — had Pas de Quatre for their dam . 
Both , broken and trained by different trainers , were blundering jumpers until they were seven , at which age they began to outgrow their carelessness , and their getaway burst of speed took over . 
RELATED 
In Northumberland , the sparkling Kerstin 's full brother and sister — Vindicated ( now with Guy Cunard ) and Lady Nenagh — made their mark for Verly Bewicke , many of whose horses are related to each other . 
Another North-country star , Rough Tweed , winner of Manchester 's Champion Novice 'Chase last April , will have a full-brother running over here this season . 
It is four-year-old Holy Loch , trained by Bobby Norris in Northamptonshire , who makes his racecourse debut — over hurdles — early in December . 
And I will be most interested in this Irish Youngster 's progress . 
I gave him his first schooling over jumps in this country last month — and he showed he is an apt pupil learning fast . 
HONEYMOOR OUT 
Honeymoor , ante-post favourite for the Cambridgeshire ( Newmarket , October 28 ) , has been scratched from the race . 
He was cast in his box on Thursday and an X-ray revealed that he had a leg injury . 
Some bookmakers yesterday made Rachel and Golden Sands joint favourites at 16-1 . 
RUGBY UNION SPECIALS Phil Taylor charge sinks the Scots London Scottish 6 Northampton 8 : by JOHN REED 
ONE must hand it to skipper Phil Taylor and his burly Northampton men . 
They shook Richmond rigid three weeks ago at the Athletic Ground with a grip of iron . 
Yesterday on the same ground they retained their unbeaten record ( six victories in seven games ) with a superb recovery after the sinewy Scots had led 6-0 for nearly an hour . 
Five sparkling minutes of fluid , exciting Rugby did the trick . 
And the Saints showed what a great side they can be . 
How rewarding , then , that the winning try should be scored by beefy Taylor himself . 
After 21 minutes of the second-half England scrum-half Dickie Jeeps booted the ball high ahead , and Scottish full-back Gordon Macdonald knocked on . 
It was to prove an expensive error . 
For the rampaging Northampton forwards were up in a flash , Clive Daniels whipped the ball to Taylor and the Northampton captain burst through for the line . 
It would have taken a brick wall to stop him , as he dived over in the corner for an unconverted try . 
Five minutes earlier the London Scottish defence had been split asunder . 
Right wing Frank Sykes , dodging and darting past grasping hands found himself surrounded . 
He threw out a long , overhead , 20-yard pass to the centre of the field as if he was a cricketer , fly-half John Shurvington picked it up neatly on the bounce and shot through to score under the posts . 
Full-back Roger Hosen converted . 
Great rally 
Northampton had staged a great rally . 
In the first half they had looked listless and a little tired in comparison with the energetic alert Scots . 
But what a change after the interval . 
Their massive scrum gained firm control in the tight , where Andy Johnson , who may well win an England trial this season , outhooked David Hayburn , who was deputising for Scottish international Norman Bruce ( injured ) and won the ball frequently against the head . 
Ernie wants a showdown on the beer bid 
A PETROL pump attendant who found himself mixed up in a £21,000,000 takeover bid , said last night he was going to have a " show-down " with his managing director . 
" I want to get this mess sorted out , " said 51-year-old Ernest Clements . 
" It 's ridiculous . 
" I 'm mixed up in a deal involving millions — and I earn only £12 a week . 
" A few hours ago I did n't even know I was a director of this firm . " 
Mr. Clements , of Ifield Road , Fulham , is registered as a director of Anglasi Nominees , a £100 company in the City . 
After Anglasi announced a £21,000,000 takeover bid for Bent 's Brewery , Liverpool , the Stock Exchange Council banned dealings in Bent 's shares . 
Stepbrothers 
Managing director of Anglasi Nominees is Mr. George Burgess . 
" Financial adviser " is Mr. Ron Foster . 
" I know them both — they 're my stepbrothers , " said Mr. Clements , as he downed a double Scotch in a London pub last night . 
" But I have n't seen them for years . 
I 've signed no forms , and I 've never bought a share in my life . 
" I do n't know what 's in this . 
But I 'm going to find out . 
I 'm going to Burgess 's office on Monday for a show-down . " 
Then Ernie Clements downed another Scotch . 
" The very idea — a brewery bid . 
I never touch beer ... " 
SACK THE MANAGER CRY FANS 
FOUR HUNDRED angry Soccer fans chanted " Sack the manager " outside Newcastle United Football Club 's ground yesterday . 
United had just been thrashed 4-0 by Everton , and now look certain to be relegated to the Football League 's Division Two . 
Newcastle 's manager is ex-winger Charlie Mitten . 
At half-time , with United two goals down , one disgusted fan climbed the club 's flagpole and hauled the Union Jack to half mast . 
It was a riotous day for soccer ... 
HORDES of angry supporters besieged referee Mr. B. J. Matthews in his dressing room for more than half-an-hour after Hitchin Town lost 2-1 to Southall in an Athenian League game at Hitchin , Herts . 
APPLE CORES and orange peel were thrown at policemen at Arsenal 's Highbury Stadium . 
HUNGER CITY CALLS MAYOR 
MAYOR , stop your roaming . 
Come home and help your hungry citizens , instead of trying to kid the world they are NOT hungry . 
That is the call from Labour leaders in the breadline city of Toronto , to Mayor Nathan Phillips . 
Mayor Phillips , wealthy head of a law firm , is more than 4,000 miles away on a holiday tour of Europe with his wife — and issuing denials that there is hunger in his home city . 
As " The People " revealed recently , Britons going to Canada will find Toronto a city without jobs . 
A city where hungry men , women and children line up for food at charity soup kitchens . 
Mayor Phillips was challenged by a Toronto newspaper to tour the city and see the distress for himself . 
But the Mayor announced : " There is no hunger " — and left for Europe . 
" I 'm going to let the people of Europe know that these stories of starvation in Toronto are all wrong , " he said . 
IN DUBLIN Mayor Phillips said : " There may be some unemployment in Toronto — but no widespread hunger or hardship . " 
Earlier , in London , where the Mayor and his wife stayed in the West End at the expensive Westbury Hotel , he attacked the recent " People " series on the hardship a Briton met in Canada and insisted : " There is no starvation in Toronto . " 
And at home in Toronto last Thursday 250 of the Mayor 's civic employees were laid off by the city council . 
Ten nurses flop exams — and a row blows up 
FOR three years , a hospital trained ten student nurses . 
Then the girls took their final examinations to become State Registered Nurses . 
And then all failed . 
It was not the first time this had happened at the 134-bed General Hospital at Great Yarmouth . 
Last October , another batch of student nurses trained there failed the examinations . 
And when the latest batch of results was revealed yesterday , it started a storm at Great Yarmouth . 
An angry parent of one student nurse who failed said : " This hundred-per-cent. failure is shocking . 
" I do n't see how it can be all the fault of the girls . " 
The secretary of Great Yarmouth General Hospital , Mr. John Egerton , said : "I can not comment on our results in the State Registered Nurse examinations . 
" A hospital committee meeting is being called to discuss the matter . " 
The hospital is controlled by the Norwich , Lowestoft and Great Yarmouth Hospital Management Committee . 
Its matron is named in the Hospital Year Book as Miss G. Embleton . 
There are two units in the hospital — the Surgical Unit , in Great Yarmouth , and the Medical Unit at neighbouring Gorleston-on-Sea . 
The hospital is on the officially approved list of those which give complete training in nursing . 
DO N'T SHOW YOUR LEGS : BY ORDER 
FASHION-CONSCIOUS policewomen in Nottingham have been told by their spinster boss to stop shortening their skirts . 
The girls thought their skirts were too old fashioned so they shortened them by tucking them over at the waist . 
Then Chief Inspector Jessie Alexander found out . 
Miss Alexander , who wears a long skirt , is also angry with the tailors who supply uniforms . 
She claims that one of her policewomen , newly-wed Mrs. Sheila Williams , has been issued with a skirt that is far shorter than regulation length . 
" There has been a slip-up , " she said . 
" In fact my own new uniform was out of shape and I have sent it back . " 
Mrs. Williams said yesterday : " I do not think my skirt is too short . 
It is just below my knees . 
" I do not see why I should lengthen the skirt — long skirts look old fashioned — but if Miss Alexander insists , I suppose it will have to be done . " 
MALE COMMENT : Nottingham 's Chief Constable — Mr. Thomas Moore — said : " There is a standard pattern for the length of policewomen 's skirts , so we must follow it . " 
All worked up about statue of a worker 
A UNION ordered a £100 statue to represent the British engineer at work . 
But when the union members saw how the statue was shaping they were FURIOUS ... 
For the statue — designed by 31-year-old sculptor John Paddison for the Amalgamated Engineering Union 's Wolverhampton district committee — shows an engineer with his coat half on and half off . 
Sculptor Paddison says the engineer is taking his coat OFF — eager to get to work . 
But the Wolverhampton engineers say the man is putting his coat ON — eager to get AWAY from work . 
Coat on — or off ? 
And that , they complain , creates a false impression that the British workman is interested only in dashing off as soon as the whistle blows . 
Said factory engineer John Williams : " It 's quite obvious from the man 's posture he is putting his coat on in a hurry . 
" Outsiders will get the impression engineers are only interested in getting out of the factory as soon as possible . " 
Said Mr. Paddison , of Riches Street , Wolverhampton : " As far as I 'm concerned , the man is taking his coat off — and that 's the way it 's staying . " 
The 4 ft. high statue will be finished in six weeks and shown at the local art gallery . 
THE B-AND-B RAIDER 
POLICE were yesterday searching for the bed-and-breakfast raider . 
After breaking into a factory at Soho Hill , Handsworth , Birmingham , he set an alarm clock belonging to one of the staff and went to sleep in the managing director 's chair . 
He stole about £3 from the canteen , which he entered with the help of factory tools , and also helped himself to eggs and milk . 
Gaoled woman let out — to steal 
A WOMAN serving a two-year sentence at Holloway was taken from the prison to a mental hospital at Friern Barnet . 
On Friday she was allowed out for four hours . 
She went to the West End and committed her 14th crime ; she stole two blouses from a store , it was said at Marlborough Street yesterday . 
The magistrate , Mr. Paul Bennett , V.C. , discharged Mrs. Kathleen Clark , of Grenville Street , King 's Cross , absolutely and ordered her return to hospital . 
Bow-WOW of a party 
FIFTY dogs will sit down to pop and buns , or biscuits , at their own garden party at Blaxton , near Doncaster , today . 
Their " guests " will be dog lovers from all over the country . 
MOTHER SOLD CHILD — FOR 28s . 
A MOTHER was arrested yesterday and charged with selling her five-year-old daughter for £1 8s . 
She is 33-year-old Mrs. Elsie Joseph , of Seattle , Washington State , whose husband , August , is wanted by the police on a similar charge . 
They have seven children . 
Seattle police say that a Mr. Wilbert Bippus , 35 , told them he and his wife had wanted to adopt a child and he offered to buy the Josephs ' daughter . 
He paid £1 8s. and took the girl home , but his wife made him return the child . 
Banker 's son Jeremy sued for debt 
THE banking family of Lubbock has had its biggest shock since son Jeremy , fresh down from university , flouted mother when she pleaded , " Darling , DO N'T become a musician . " 
Jeremy Lubbock , now 30 and a piano player in a West End night club , has not paid up a debt , it was said in the High Court . 
So a Receiving Order in Bankruptcy has been served on him — and some of Jeremy 's friends are wondering : What would grandfather have said about that ? 
For GRANDFATHER Cecil Lubbock , 83 when he died in 1956 , was a boss of the Bank of England , 32 years a director and for two years deputy governor . 
Spurned 
And what is FATHER saying ? 
For father Michael Lubbock , a cousin of Lord Avebury , followed the tradition that Jeremy spurned and is a director of the Bank of London and South America , and the banking firm of S. G. Warburg and Co . 
Pianist Jeremy himself took time off from the keys to tell what HE thinks about it . 
" It 's most unfortunate , " he said . 
But is the banker 's son ( family motto " The Author Makes the Value " ) likely to be made a bankrupt ? 
" No , I can promise you there is no prospect of that , " said Jeremy . 
" My assets exceed my liabilities . 
Everything is being ironed out . 
I have the money although I am disputing the debt . " 
"You know , " he said , " I 'm no dabbler at music . 
It is my career . " 
BISHOP ASKS COUPLE TO FORGIVE PARSON 
THE Bishop of Coventry is to ask a vicar why he did not marry two teenage parishioners . 
" I shall go into this matter very fully , " said the Bishop , Dr. Cuthbert Bardesley . 
The vicar is the Rev. Eric Jarvis , of the Warwickshire village of Ansley , who was to have married 19-year-old Barry Wright and Margaret Wilson , 18 , at St. Thomas 's Church , Coventry . 
But five days before Mr. Jarvis told the couple he would not marry them unless he was ordered to by his Bishop . 
As a result , Barry and Margaret got married at another church , after a delay of eight days . 
Barry 's mother protested to the Bishop . 
He has written back saying he is glad the marriage did take place , and adding : — 
" I hope that now you and your son and daughter-in-law will forgive and forget , and that you will urge the young couple to receive all the help they can through prayer and worship . " 
Last night Barry , of Birmingham Road , Ansley , said : " From the first time we met the vicar he seemed to have something against us . 
" He was particularly interested in finding out why we were n't having a white wedding . 
At the wedding rehearsal the vicar told us he would write to the Bishop and tell him that he had two non-active Christians in the parish . 
" He said that if he were told to marry us he would resign . 
" Margaret was terribly upset , " added Barry . 
" I went back and told the vicar that we would be married in another church . 
There was nothing else I could do — it might have meant his resignation otherwise . " 
At Ansley vicarage , Mr. Jarvis said : " The decision to go elsewhere was theirs . 
" But I did tell them that in a certain set of circumstances I would write to the Bishop and if he told me to marry them I would have to consider resigning . " 
Mr. Forte To The Rescue ? 
A SCHEME to unscramble the so-called Jasper group of companies may be announced before the end of this month . 
For some time now negotiations have been going on between the State Building Society and a group believed to be headed by Mr. Charles Forte , the caterer . 
The basis of the talks have been , firstly , that the depositors of the State should at least be repaid 20s. in the pound , even if they may suffer some loss of interest , and secondly , that there should be an offer — on the basis of independent accountants ' valuations — for all the shares in all the group companies , whose stock exchange quotations have been suspended . 
Altogether , the State has lent about £7 million to various companies in the group , but the chief problem is the £3 1/4 million borrowed by Friedrich Grunwald , its driving force , at present serving a five-year prison sentence . 
Grunwald also borrowed £1 1/2 million from Mr. Maxwell Joseph , the hotelier , and it seems certain that a solution will depend on Mr. Joseph foregoing a considerable part of this , as well as on Mr. Grunwald and Herbert Murray ( formerly of the State Building Society , now also in prison ) surrendering the greater part of their own personal holdings in group companies . 
Mr. Forte 's interest in taking over the group plainly lies in the catering opportunities offered . 
Among the group 's assets are the Piccadilly , Rubens and Rembrandt hotels in London , as well as a number of provincial hotels . 
It also owns a number of news theatres and , among others , the " Classic " chain of repertory cinemas . 
Finally , there are 43 billiard halls for which Mr. Forte may well have other plans . 
But there is also a substantial property interest , above all the £4 million Dolphin Square block of flats . 
The scheme therefore hinges on finding a property group to take over this aspect of the Grunwald " empire . " 
More than one property company has already shown an interest in this , but a well-known £15 million London group specialising in residential property seems at present the most likely bet . 
Things at last seem to be looking up for the thousands of long-suffering State Building Society depositors . 
Even if the present scheme falls through — which now seems unlikely — there is a City merchant bank now waiting quietly on the sidelines with an alternative scheme in its pocket . 
New Recruit 
MR . 
GERALD GLOVER 'S election last week to the board of City of London Real Property provides an interesting link between one of the most active property development groups and a company whose immense possibilities has made eyes other than those of Mr. Cotton and Mr. Clore take a long , lingering , glance in its direction . 
Among other things , Mr. Glover is chairman of Edger Investments , the development company whose latest achievement has been the Carlton Tower Hotel in Sloane Street , London . 
Like many another property company it has attracted the backing of a leading insurance company — none other than the Prudential . 
Perhaps even more important , however , for Edger is the backing it enjoys from Development Securities , which owns one-third of the equity . 
This company , whose principal asset is the Dorchester Hotel and whose shares have so far this year risen from 81s. to a new high of 110s , is in turn controlled by the wealthy McAlpine family . 
Until now the only connection between CLRP and the McAlpine-Glover interests lay in the vast Stag Brewery site at Victoria , which is 51 p.c. owned by CLRP , 25 p.c. by Development Securities and 24 p.c. by Edger . 
The new move should at least serve to boost the pace of developing this site , from which the £4 million Edger should — proportionately — benefit most . 
With a yield of little more than 1 p.c. at the current price of 28s. 3d. the shares are essentially a long-term investment . 
But one which should prove rewarding . 
ICI 's Bad Example 
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES should certainly have no difficulty in finding underwriters for its next " rights " issue . 
As a result of its decision to revert to the bad old practice , gradually being rejected by the more progressive companies , of letting the underwriters get the benefit of the rights inadvertently not taken up — in this case nearly 3 per cent . 
of the £34 million issue — there has been an underwriting " bonus " of no less than £280,000 . 
It is of course true , as Mr. Paul Chambers , the ICI chairman , has pointed out , that at the time of the issue the rights were worth only 9d. a share , and that if the shares not taken up were to be sold for the benefit of the shareholders whose rights they were — the normal modern practice — this would involve considerable administrative work . 
But this is a matter of principle . 
Underwriters are adequately recompensed for the services they perform without the necessity of a pourboire at the expense of innocently negligent — or merely absent — shareholders . 
ICI should be setting a better example than this . 
Forward Strip 
WHAT tax changes are likely in this month 's Budget ? 
One innovation the Government has been seriously considering — and which may yet come about — is the introduction of a flat rate Corporation Tax to replace the present combination of income tax and profits tax on company profits . 
This would have the obvious merit of recognising the important difference between company and personal taxation . 
It would also , I believe , be welcomed by the inland Revenue ( normally averse to any major change ) as a means of helping them in their endless battle against the dividend strippers . 
For those few readers unacquainted with this sport I should perhaps explain that dividend stripping is essentially a device for extracting accumulated reserves from a private trading company without paying tax . 
In its simplest form it used to work in the following way . 
The trading company with , say , £100,000 of reserves and £50,000 of other assets is sold to a finance company for £150,000 . 
The finance company then pays itself a dividend of £100,000 and sells the trading company back to its original owners for £50,000 . 
The latter are then left with the company plus £100,000 in cash — the object of the exercise . 
The finance company , however , whose business is dealing in shares and other property and is thus taxed on capital gains , can offset the £100,000 loss in buying and reselling the business against the dividend received . 
Hence it , too , has no tax liability . 
Revenue 's Chagrin 
Last year 's Finance Act — in particular the " blanket " Section 28 — was meant to have put a stop to all this . 
But although the crude method just outlined is no longer possible , a roaring trade is still being done — much to the Revenue 's chagrin — in some of the more esoteric refinements of dividend stripping . 
Among them are the methods known among the professionals as the " Scissors , " Stock Shunting and the Forward Strip . 
The first two are highly complex operations , usually used in property deals . 
The forward strip , however , was specially designed for those people who have not yet made their profits — actors , for example . 
Here , a company is formed to exploit the actor 's services over the next five years . 
In essence what happens is that the drop in value of the shares in this company ( at the end of the five years they are worthless ) is offset against the actor 's earnings over the period . 
How many of our leading actors are anxiously waiting for April 17 to find out whether they will be able to continue their forward strip ? 
THIS WEEK 'S DIVIDENDS Reyrolle : Phoenix 
HIGHLIGHT of this week 's dividend news will come from A. Reyrolle , the big North-country electrical engineers who report on Friday . 
The difficulties through which the heavy electrical industry has passed in recent years are well enough known and they have n't left Reyrolle scatheless . 
These went further than a mere check to growth , and at one time brought trading profits down from the peak of £3,909,000 in 1955 by nearly £1 million . 
Last year trading profits had climbed back to £3,134,000 , but the market is not particularly sanguine that 1960 will have seen much further recovery — profit margins were probably too slim for that . 
Last year 's agreement with Associated Electrical Industries for joint research has probably not been in force long enough to bring big savings yet , but it should do so in time . 
Meanwhile Reyrolle has never cut its dividend which has been held at the equivalent of 8 1/4 per cent on present capital for the past four years . 
Earnings a year ago were 25 per cent . 
The interim has been maintained this year at 3 1/4 per cent and expectation is that the final will again be 5 1/2 per cent — anything more would please the market . 
The shares have risen in the past two months by about 7s. in line with other heavy electricals , on hopes that the industry has now passed its worst . 
Chemicals Prosperity 
Better profits are expected from Associated Chemical Companies when the figures for 1960 are announced next Thursday . 
A.C.C. , formerly British Chrome & Chemicals , has expanded rapidly in recent years and is now a sizeable group controlling assets worth more than £11 million . 
Trading profits have risen from about £250,000 to £1,345,000 in the past 10 years . 
Last year 's total distribution of 15 p.c. came from earnings of 38 p.c. so an increase is well within the company 's powers especially as the cash position is good . 
On the other hand the directors may be conservative again because of expansion plans . 
A free scrip issue can not be ruled out . 
It must surely come some day with reserves and undistributed profits now totalling nearly £4 million by comparison with an issued equity capital of £2,154,000 . 
The last scrip issue was seven years ago . 
Profits of Mitchells , Ashworth & Stansfield , the Lancashire manufacturers , dyers and printers of felts who now have considerable interests in the carpet trades , are expected to be lower . 
This will have been caused by running-in troubles with their new plant . 
There can hardly be much fear , however , of a reduced distribution , so strong is the company 's financial position . 
For several years past the company has added a 6 1/2 p.c. tax free distribution from capital profits to its dividend . 
Cash Resources 
A year ago the balance sheet disclosed cash and investments totalling nearly £800,000 by comparison with an issued capital which is still only £417,000 after the one-for-four scrip issue . 
Two-thirds of the investments are in quoted stocks and some shareholders have been pressing for a return of capital . 
Steps are in hand to repay the £119,000 of Preference capital and interest in the company 's report centres chiefly on what further moves will be made to distribute some of the surplus cash resources . 
The 5s. shares of Phoenix Assurance have risen about 30s. this year and 50s. from the low point last year . 
This reflects market hopes that there will at last be an increase on the 100 p.c. dividend maintained for the past six years , albeit with one tiny scrip issue of one-for-20 . 
Nevertheless Phoenix shares at around 160s. still yield just over 3 p.c . 
This is high by comparison with the 1 1/4 to 1 3/4 p.c. returns shown by such companies as Equity Law , General Accident , Legal & General and Eagle Star . 
But after the " no change " shock from Legal and General it would be as well not to expect much . 
Italy Seeks Firms From Britain 
ITALY is actively looking for British firms wishing to start manufacturing within the Common Market . 
Already Inbucon , a British firm of business consultants has been engaged by Finmeccanica , the large holding company , to look for suitable candidates . 
Finmeccanica has substantial interests in Alfa-Romeo and Ansaldo , the important Genoa shipyard . 
It is offering to finance wholly or in part new British manufacturing ventures in Italy . 
Finmeccanica is itself owned by the vast semi-autonomous Government agency , the Institute for Industrial Reconstruction ( I.R.I. ) ; which has majority shareholdings in a large number of Italian heavy industrial concerns , public utilities and banks . 
No Future For Small Atomic Reactors ? 
News that Hawker Siddeley is withdrawing from the nuclear power business has confirmed the growing belief that the making of small atomic reactors has a long way to go before it becomes a commercial proposition . 
THE BIGGEST CONTEST IN THE WORLD After four months ' travel in Russia and the United States MERVYN JONES compares life in the two competing super-Powers and the attitudes of their people 
TO say that it is nice to be home , after four months and seven thousand miles of travel in America and Russia , is true in more than one way . 
Appreciation of living in England , now amply reinforced , is the least of it . 
The greatest relief is not to be at either pulling end in the global tug-of-war . 
Whether we call it cold war or peaceful competition , the contest between the two super-Powers is a burden of which they will never be free in what we can discern of the future . 
The material weight of this burden , considerable in America , is enormous in Russia . 
Its psychological weight is incalculable for two peoples whose inclination , from reasons of geography and tradition , is to want the rest of the world to stop bothering them . 
This is evident , notably , with regard to the race to the moon . 
For us in England , according to individual outlook , the exploration of space is either a silly game or a glorious endeavour of the human spirit . 
For the contestants , it is no joke and no fun either . 
It is something that has to be done because the other side is doing it . 
Teacher 's view of space flights 
For Americans , Russia 's lead in the race is as grim a matter as Japan 's initiative after Pearl Harbour . 
Of the possible reactions , sheer denial was commoner than I could have expected . 
A famous columnist explained in detail how the Gagarin and Titov flights had been ( not " might have been " ) fabricated . 
A mother , sensible enough to believe in them , asked me what she should say to her child after the teacher had told the class they were a fake . 
" Tell her what you think , " I said ; but in a conformist small town this was evidently as hard as for an atheist parent to challenge religious instruction . 
Belief in the flights necessarily implied gloom . 
As I bought my paper at the candy store on the day of the Titov flight , the headlines were big and black . 
The shopkeeper 's wife glanced at them and said : " Is n't it just too awful ? " 
The third reaction was to take comfort in America 's way of doing things . 
" Ours , " said a young teacher , "is a democratic space programme . " 
By this he meant that it was attended by publicity and by care for human life . 
I had been assured several times that half-a-dozen Russians are whirling dead through space . 
" We could have a man on the moon in six months if we just shot them off regardless , " said the teacher . 
None of these people was excited by the thought of an American in space . 
" The whole thing 's crazy when you think of half the world starving , " said an economics student at Cleveland . 
But he added : " I guess we 've got to do it . " 
Getting ready for massacre 
For the Russians , who enjoy the lead , one might expect it to be an inspiration . 
For some of them , it is . 
A woman pulling potatoes on an especially primitive collective farm , and lunching as I spoke to her on dry bread and gherkins , said : " Do n't judge our country by what you see — we 've got the first man in space . " 
The surprise was to meet Russians ( not intellectuals , but common folk ) who took a contrary view . 
An engineer : " It 's not the right way to use millions of roubles , with conditions as they are . " 
A miner 's wife : " It wo n't do any harm , if we can believe it 's for peaceful purposes , but it would have been better to build more hospitals . " 
A tractor driver : " We do n't say this publicly , you understand , but most of us think it 's a waste of money . " 
At this , the tractor driver 's mate grinned and said : " People say Titov was really sent up to photograph America . " 
I asked if he thought the space flights justified . 
He shrugged : " Might do one good thing — prove once and for all there 's no God up there . " 
What is taken for granted , both in America and in Russia , is that there would be no sputniks if there were no military rockets . 
Which brings me to the gloomiest aspect of my journey : the spectacle of two great peoples getting ready to massacre each other . 
It is a cliche2 to say that neither the American nor the Russian people want war , but it is true . 
With the Russians , it is a simple matter of scars yet unhealed . 
Time and again , people gripped me by the arm , told ghastly stories of the Nazi invasion , and asked : " Can you imagine that we would start a war ? " 
It is impossible to doubt their sincerity . 
With the Americans , there are several strands . 
They have a great deal to lose . 
They have , even now , a deep suspicion of militarism , of " the brass , " of the gearing of the nation to war . 
A young ornithologist , asked how he came to choose his profession , explained : " After I graduated I was in chemistry , but I found they were using it for war . 
I switched to electronics , and it was the same . 
I sat down to figure out what they could n't use for war , and what I came up with was birds . " 
No real awareness of nuclear threat 
Add to this a still potent distrust of foreign entanglements . 
The evening after the President 's July 25 speech , announcing a readiness to fight for Berlin and an increase in the call-up — a speech which caused more alarm over interrupted careers than satisfaction — I chatted over a coffee with a factory worker . 
He was all enthusiasm : it was a wonderful speech , he was behind Kennedy all the way . 
Then he said abruptly : " A good thing we have n't got Truman in the White House now . 
Never was any need to fight in Korea , and if he was around we 'd be fighting in Germany now . " 
But , sad to relate , " they want peace " is not the whole story . 
One has to add that both Americans and Russians are ready to contemplate war . 
The reason is that neither people has any real awareness of what nuclear war would mean . 
Union Square in New York is a public forum , comparable to Speakers ' Corner in Hyde Park . 
As a listening-post , it is more instructive than Hyde Park because nobody gets on a platform . 
A man with something on his mind starts to talk , and those around him join in . 
" You got ta admit , " a young man was saying as I neared a sizeable group , " that things advance when there 's a war . 
We got penicillin because of the last war , and we 'll get something else next time . " 
A religious pacifist intervened : " Did you ever see a picture of Hiroshima ? " 
The first speaker countered : " Aw , Hiroshima — did you ever see a man mangled by a bus ? " 
Another man observed with an air of sagacity : " Wars are fought for real estate . 
They kick it around for a bit , then they divide it up . 
Look at Korea , look at Vietnam . " 
Another summed up : " There always will be wars , it do n't matter how much you talk . " 
I broke in to ask if anyone disagreed with this proposition . 
Among about fifty people , nobody did . 
Lecture on need for disarmament 
Nobody in Russia would talk about the benefits of war . 
But when a Russian talks of the horrors of war , he is talking a different language from a nuclear disarmer . 
The very intensity of past experience inhibits thought of a worse future . 
Once , a man who had experienced Nazi occupation told me how the Germans knocked people about and turned them out of their homes to freeze . 
He wound up , inevitably : " We do n't want to see that again . " 
I said : " One thing that 's certain is that you wo n't . 
You 'll see either peace or death in a split second . " 
He stared at me , wondering what I was talking about . 
At a restaurant in Kursk , three Russians lectured me on the need for disarmament and cited the speech Khrushchev had made the previous day at Stalingrad ( sorry , Volgograd ) . 
Nettled by some remarks by de Gaulle , the Soviet Premier had declared that France would be obliterated in another war and added : " However , it is impossible to destroy the Soviet Union . " 
Americans ' inborn optimism 
I said that Khrushchev was quite right about France , and Britain , too , but unduly sanguine about his own country . 
Nuclear weapons , I went on , could destroy the human race . 
Signalling to the waitress for another round of Cuban rum , one of the Russians said positively : " Not the Soviet Union . " 
It is equally inconceivable for Americans that their country could cease to function as an organised society . 
Paradoxically , the civil defence drive strengthens this feeling . 
Estimates of how many people would be killed , however horrific , merely suggest how many would be saved . 
With their inborn optimism , many Americans envisage the aftermath of nuclear attack as a period of getting back on their feet , like the day after a hurricane . 
The point is often made that Americans have never known modern war on their soil . 
It is sometimes forgotten that Russians have never known long-range bombing . 
The blitz on London was a frustrated substitute for invasion . 
Leningrad was shelled and many Russian towns were devastated by street-fighting , but Moscow — with the Germans almost in the suburbs — never had an air raid on the London scale , and behind the lines was behind the lines . 
It is natural to think with some confidence of keeping the enemy out next time . 
Russians do , of course , know about nuclear bombs and missiles . 
But everyone hopes that his home town will not be a target , and they have been told very little about fallout . 
Defence , therefore , means defence for them . 
Views that go unchallenged 
To this , one has to add the general conviction that " our side " is in the right , and acting defensively , over what Russians call the German question and Americans the Berlin crisis . 
The view that Khrushchev is simply trying to settle the German problem on a sensible basis is , of course , never publicly challenged in Russia . 
The view that Kennedy is simply trying to maintain a position unreasonably attacked by the Soviet Union is seldom publicly challenged in America . 
For people who do not rule out " war if necessary , " the mood is not far on either side from : " We do n't want to fight , but by jingo if we do ... " 
Any glossary of the Russo-American political vocabulary ( and I am thinking of everyday speech as well as official statements ) must include these entries : " Threat : a bellicose move made by our opponents . 
Warning : a bellicose move made by us . " 
I have met both Americans and Russians who were genuinely saddened by the resumption of nuclear tests , which was in the offing while I was in America and happened while I was in Russia . 
It meant that hopes had been dashed , and it showed how bad things were getting . 
But I met nobody who thought it actually wrong if their leaders found it necessary . 
One might sum up by recording two posters in the same street in Kiev . 
The first showed a mother clutching a child and read : " For their sake , we must have peace . " 
The other showed a steel-helmeted soldier with levelled bayonet and read : " Ready for the defence of the Motherland . " 
I feel sure that both meet with general approval . 
Cold war , nevertheless , is less intense than hot war in more than one respect . 
The antagonism is less total , and among both peoples there is a refreshing absence of the undiscriminating hatred known in the last war as Vansittartism . 
This is easy for the Americans . 
They reason that , since one can be loyal to America and oppose Kennedy , one can be fond of Russia while loathing Khrushchev . 
There is in fact a certain vogue for Russia in the United States . 
Far more young people are learning the Russian language than in Britain , and they are not all hoping for jobs with the Voice of America . 
A.E.U. National Committee 's Demand May Cost £30 Million ENGINEERS ' THREE-WEEK HOLIDAY CALL Revised Pay Basis Claim 
THE resumed conference of the A.E.U. National Committee at Eastbourne today passed a resolution reaffirming the demand for a third week 's holiday , and eight statutory holidays with pay for three million workers . 
It also asked for a revision of holiday pay to be based on average earnings for all and a minimum of £2 13s. 6d. a day for time workers . 
It is estimated that this claim , if conceded , would cost the employers between £25 to £30 million a year . 
Mr. L. Smith ( Sidcup ) , the mover , said that many employed in public service already had three weeks holiday and also many white collar workers , including draughtsmen , who were winning the day in negotiations with individual firms . 
He thought Britain was lagging behind many on the Continent who had longer holidays . 
WORK STRAIN 
Mr. W. J. Daniel ( Worcester ) urged that it was vitally necessary to have longer breaks from work because of the stress and strain of working 50 weeks in the year . 
" Mental hospitals and homes are being filled because of the strain of modern industry , " he declared . 
" I think we can get the British Medical Association and hospital authorities on our side on this , " he said . 
Mrs. M. E. Sparks ( Birmingham ) said that employers were beginning to recognise that tea breaks were necessary because they revitalised the workers ' energy . 
Under automation work was getting more monotonous and that was bringing mental and bodily illness . 
NEW GRADE 
Mr. W. J. Carron ( President ) pointed out that in some sections of industry , under the pressure of the rank and file , increased holidays had been agreed based on length of service and other qualifications . 
There had also been an extension of a new grade known as manual staff where attractions , including longer holidays , were being offered to the rank and file and were being accepted . 
Short-time Figures Slashed in Car Factories 
IMPROVEMENT in the motor industry situation was reflected in figures issued after today 's monthly meeting of the Midland Regional Board for Industry . 
The number of people estimated to be on short time has dropped from a total of 29,400 including 21,500 car workers a month ago , to a total of 12,000 including just under 8,000 car workers . 
The total number unemployed in the last month has fallen by 2,800 to just over 29,000 . 
Major C. R. Dibben , chairman of the board , told a Press conference , that most workers in the industry were now back to a full working week . 
" Although the revival in car sales appears to be largely in the home market and difficulties in the exports ' markets have continued , there is hope in the industry that the success of British cars at recent motor shows abroad foreshadows further increases in activity in the industry during the next four or five months , " he said . 
EXPORT CAMPAIGN 
In Coventry , on April 10 , there were 3,440 unemployed including 700 on short time . 
A greater awareness of the need for exports by Midland manufacturers was reported by Mr. C. J. Holman , regional director of the Board of Trade . 
As a result of the Government 's export campaign , inquiries to the Board 's Birmingham offices from firms had increased by 55 per cent . 
They came from about 600 firms all over the Midlands . 
A change to a decimal coinage system : " as quickly as possible " was recommended by the regional board after hearing views of members . 
Motor Exports Down in First Quarter 
CAR exports for the first quarter of this year at 85,219 , represented the lowest quarterly figure since 1956 , the Board of Trade said today . 
It was 5,000 below the figure for the final quarter of 1960 and nearly 100,000 below that for the first quarter of 1960 . 
Car output for the quarter , at 218,003 , was well below any quarterly figure for 1959 and 1960 . 
But the Board 's monthly statistics showed a brighter picture for commercial vehicles . 
The totals for exports in the quarter , at 48,358 and production , at 119,745 , were both well above corresponding figures for any quarter in 1959-60 . 
( " Motor Industry Expansion Hopes Questioned " — Page 6 . ) 
ALGERIAN PARATROOP ATTACK BEATEN OFF First Shots in Revolt 
FIRST fighting in the Algeria revolt broke out today when loyal forces repulsed an attempt by paratroops to storm the naval base of Mers el Kebir , near Oran , western Algeria . 
According to official sources quoted by the French agency a French light cruiser fired warning shots as paratroops approached the base . 
Unconfirmed reports said troops and Marines resisted the attack and the paratroops withdrew soon afterwards . 
Two battalions of French motorised infantry were reported to have crossed the Rhine into France today , as the Armed Forces Ministry announced the recall of troops and armour from the 60,000 strong force in Germany to strengthen the Paris area . 
The capital had passed a second night of vigil against a possible airborne invasion from Algeria . 
Food Rush 
It was also announced that 10,000 reservists had been recalled and the 16th Infantry Division put on a war footing . 
A message from President De Gaulle will be read to the French National Assembly and Senate this afternoon . 
The French Grocers ' Federation appealed to people today not to create a rush on foodstuffs . 
They said there was no reason to fear a food shortage . 
The appeal follows a rush by Parisian housewives yesterday to stock up with food . 
LAOS CEASE-FIRE NEAR ? 
THE Royal Laotian Government has accepted the appeal made yesterday by the co-chairmen of the Geneva agreement ( the British and Soviet Foreign Ministers ) , for a cease-fire in Laos . 
A Foreign Office spokesman said in London today : " We very much welcome the Royal Laotian Government 's acceptance of the cease-fire appeal . " 
The Soviet Government is taking steps to bring the cease-fire appeal to the notice of the Left-wing Pathet Lao forces . 
Move for Coach Drinks Fails 
A MOVE to enable alcoholic drinks to be sold to passengers in public vehicles on specified services was defeated today . 
Mr. William Clark , Conservative M.P . 
for Nottingham South , proposed a new clause to the Government 's Licensing Bill so that such drinks could be permitted . 
He told the Standing Committee on the Bill : "You can eat in a long-distance coach in this country , you can softly drink , but you can not have alcoholic drink . " 
Mr. Marcus Lipton ( Lab. , Brixton ) said he supported the new clause but he would not like to see " 24 hours drinking going on — combined cruising and boozing while enjoying the beauties of the countryside . " 
Public Concern 
Mr. Dennis Vosper , Minister of State , Home Office , said there ought not to be a close association of alcohol and road transport when there was so much public concern about road accidents . 
Mr. Harold Boardman ( Lab. , Leigh ) said : " Miners hire a private coach and fill up the boot with beer cases . 
People come down for the Cup Final in coaches carrying more beer bottles than passengers . " 
( laughter . ) 
Ceylon Cabinet Orders General Mobilisation 
THE Ceylon Government today ordered general mobilisation and called out on active service nine units of volunteers and reservists of the Army , Navy , Air Force and Home Guards . 
The units were ordered to report for duty immediately . 
The Prime Minister , Mrs. Sirimavo Bandaranaike , said in a broadcast to the nation today that the Government had received information that various other organisations besides the recently banned opposition Federal Party were secretly planning to undermine the Government . 
DEATH PENALTY 
The estate strike yesterday morning was aimed at this and certain elements were using the bank clerks ' strike to cause great economic harm to the country , she declared . 
Mrs. Bandaranaike called upon " all patriotic Ceylonese to give their full support to the Government . " 
By a proclamation last night , the death penalty for looting and arson , and other punishment for offences such as the breaking of bridges , obstruction to roads and damage to buses and trains was extended to the whole of the island . 
The measures had previously applied only to certain areas affected by recent trouble in Ceylon , arising out of a civil disobedience campaign in the Tamil-speaking northern and eastern provinces against the adoption of Sinhalese as the official language . 
London Jew Faces Eichmann After 23 Years 
A BRITISH estate agent , Mr. Moliz Fleischmann , of St. John 's Wood , London , told the court trying Adolf Eichmann , today , of the occasion 23 years ago when he faced the Nazi leader across a desk in the Gestapo 's Vienna headquarters . 
Mr. Fleischmann , a former Jewish leader in Vienna , where he was born , escaped on one of the last trains out of the city before the outbreak of war . 
In March , 1938 , he and other Jewish leaders were called to the Hotel Metropole , Gestapo headquarters , and taken before Eichmann . 
" He sat at a large desk — we had to stand , " Mr. Fleischmann said . 
" He was in uniform , the black S.S. uniform which became very familiar to us later . 
" He told us his task was to purify Vienna and Austria from Jews in the quickest possible way . " 
Today , as he recalled those words , Mr. Fleischmann again faced Eichmann . 
The witness box from which he spoke is directly opposite the bulletproof glass-covered dock in which Eichmann sat . 
" The influence of Eichmann 's activity and the fear which developed in the heart of Viennese Jewry was felt immediately , " said Mr. Fleischmann . 
Part of Mr. Fleischmann 's testimony added to the mystery of Eichmann 's birth . 
He said that at the Vienna interview Eichmann told him : " I speak Hebrew and Yiddish fluently because I was born in Sharona " ( a German community near Tel Aviv , Israel ) . 
But in interrogation Eichmann has told his captors that he was born at Solingen , Germany , and can not understand how the idea got about that he is Palestine-born . 
Protest Over Berkswell Footpaths 
THREE Berkswell footpaths and one at Bickenhill , which are all used by visitors , ramblers and residents in the areas , should not be closed , Meriden R.D.C. is to tell British Railways . 
Asking for closure orders , British Railways say the footpaths cross railway lines and will be affected by the Coventry-Birmingham main line electrification scheme . 
People who live in the neighbourhood and ramblers were asked their opinion before Meriden R.D.C. came to its decision . 
Berkswell Parish Council strongly opposes any proposal to close the footpath which runs from the south of Truggist Lane , crossing the railway line short of the eastern side of Berkswell Station . 
ASSOCIATION 'S EVIDENCE 
It considered that this path was an important right of way linking the southern part of the parish with the village and the church . 
The Ramblers ' Association also confirmed that this path was used by their Coventry-based clubs . 
The association provided evidence to prove that paths which linked Kenilworth Road with Wootton Lane and Bradnocks Marsh Lane were frequently used , although the parish council raised no objections to closures . 
The closing of a fourth footpath , connecting Old Station Road with Church Lane , Bickenhill , is being opposed by the local parish council and the Ramblers ' Association . 
BILL " GIVES LICENSEES MORE PROTECTION " 
COVENTRY and Leamington members of the Midlands Womens ' Auxiliaries who attended their association 's annual rally at Sutton Coldfield yesterday were told that the new Licensing Bill would bring more protection from teenage drinkers as well as more competition . 
Nearly 400 wives and relatives of licensees belonging to the association were at the rally . 
They are responsible for a great deal of charity work , both nationally and in the licensed trade . 
" GOING CONTINENTAL " 
They were told by Rear-Admiral W. G. Brittain , director of the National Trade Development Association , a body which helps to co-ordinate relations between the brewer and the publican , that under the new Bill the penalty for under-age drinkers would go up from £2 to £25 . 
" I hope that will choke off some of them from their games and give you a more peaceful life in your houses , " he said . 
Rear-Admiral Brittain said the Government had clearly decided that the country must " go Continental " and give drink licenses to restaurants and boarding houses . 
For better or for worse this would bring competition to the licensed trade . 
He said : " That leads us to the importance of catering , but it does n't have to be a " Ritzy " meal . " 
They turned out to see Jacqueline , say surprised police 200,000 PARISIANS GO WILD OVER KENNEDY Confetti welcome in Rue de Rivoli 
PARIS gave President and Mrs. Kennedy a gay welcome today , and crowds estimated at 200,000 cheered them on their drive from Orly Airport . 
President de Gaulle sat beside Mr. Kennedy in an open car as the American leader — 26 years his junior — stood up to acknowledge the cheers , flag-waving and hand-clapping of the crowds . 
Surprised police said there were more people in the streets than for ex-President Eisenhower or for Mr. Kruschev . 
As soon as the official motorcade entered the city limits a 101-gun salute began to boom out . 
Cannon beside the Seine were still firing as President Kennedy reached the Quai d'Orsay , the French Foreign Ministry , where he will stay until Saturday morning . 
Mr. and Mrs. Kennedy received a particularly hearty welcome from students outside the Sorbonne University — where Mrs. Kennedy once studied . 
Confetti was showered down the Rue de Rivoli , where Parisians thronged office windows as well as pavements . 
At the airport , Mr. Kennedy praised his host as "a captain in the field in the defence of the West " for over 20 years , adding that his leadership and sense of history were needed more than ever today . 
It was Mrs. Kennedy who drew the crowds , said police . 
The President stood bare-headed in his car to acknowledge the cheers , but Mrs. Kennedy , dressed in a pale blue coat and matching blue straw hat , was half-hidden from the crowds as she rode by in her enclosed car , waving and smiling . 
MEETING 
This three-day visit is President Kennedy 's first to Europe since he took office . 
The first meeting between the Presidents lasted 40 minutes . 
They began their discussions , which will take up nine hours in five meetings over the next three days , two hours after Mr. Kennedy flew in . 
General de Gaulle greeted Mr. Kennedy on the steps of the Elysee Palace and Republican Guards gave full military honours . 
Later President de Gaulle gave a luncheon party in the Palace in honour of Mr. and Mrs. Kennedy . 
The 40 guests included M. Debre , the French Prime Minister . 
Of his planned three-day discussions with President de Gaulle , Mr. Kennedy said : "I have neither held nor planned any talks that are more important . " 
He added : " I am here to pay tribute to France , not for her past glory but for her present greatness — her leadership in Europe and Africa , in science and industry , the productivity of her workers , the brilliance of her universities , the grandeur of her mission in carrying the torch of liberty to new nations throughout the world . " 
In his reply , President de Gaulle told him : " We have never known Americans here other than as friends and allies , and as such we welcome you . " 
Cheers all the way for President Swart 
THOUSANDS of South Africans , citizens of a republic since midnight , today saw 66-year-old Mr. Charles Swart drive in procession to the Groote Kerk Church in Pretoria , where he took the oath as their first President . 
Representatives of all sections of the population had places in the church to witness the President 's inauguration ceremony . 
They included Africans , Coloureds ( mixed race ) , Indians and Chinese . 
Leaders of eight African national units were headed by the Paramount Chief of the Zulus , Cyprian Dinizulu . 
Mr. Swart drove to church with a guard of mounted police in front and behind . 
The crowd , six deep in places , cheered him enthusiastically . 
Many had waited since 6 a.m. in the rain , and the square was a sea of umbrellas . 
11-gun salute 
Salutes of 11 guns and the peal of church bells greeted the birth of the republic at midnight , ending ties with the British Crown that went back 155 years . 
In his inauguration speech , Mr. Swart said South Africa wanted to decide its own domestic policy " without interference from outside . " 
He paid tribute to the Queen , expressing appreciation of her " courtesy , friendliness and graciousness , " and said he hoped for cordial relations in the future . 
The Queen sent a cable of good wishes , and Mr. Macmillan sent a message to Dr. Verwoerd , the Prime Minister . 
Mr. Kruschev in Czechoslovakia 
Mr. Kruschev arrived today in Czechoslovakia on his way to the weekend meeting with President Kennedy in Vienna , the Soviet news agency Tass reported . 
Tass did not name the town in Czechoslovakia where the Soviet Prime Minister had arrived . 
Mr. Kruschev left Kiev , in the Ukraine , by rail . 
Conservatives put their man in at hectic meeting LABOUR OUTVOTED — SO A TORY GETS THE CHAIR By MICHAEL PICKERING Our Municipal Correspondent 
CONSERVATIVE Councillor Bob Henderson was elected chairman of Newcastle Housing Management Committee today — but he will hold the position for only one meeting . 
His election followed a hectic half-hour during the meeting when the Labour group , with only three members out of ten present , fought to keep control of the chair . 
They were out-voted by the Conservatives who were at full strength with five members present . 
Following custom , the Lord Mayor , Ald. Henry Russell , took the chair at the beginning of the meeting during the election of chairman and vice-chairman for the coming year . 
The Labour group was represented by Coun. Mrs. C. M. Lewcock , Coun. A. P. Gurd , and Ald. R. W. Hanlan . 
FIVE VOTES TO THREE 
Coun. Mrs. Lewcock proposed Coun. Jack Johnston for chairman . 
He is at present on holiday in Paris , and was vice-chairman last year . 
The Conservatives voted against . 
Coun. Gurd then proposed Coun. Mrs. Lewcock as chairman for the one meeting . 
Again the Conservatives voted against and won . 
Coun. Bob Henderson then proposed Ald. John Burton , the former Housing Management Committee chairman , who was voted out of his chairmanship by the Labour group at a meeting shortly before last week 's aldermanic elections . 
Conservative Councillor Mrs. M. E. Graham seconded the proposal , but as Ald. Burton was not at the meeting and had not given his permission , the nomination was withdrawn . 
Conservative Councillor Mrs. I. McCambridge then proposed Coun. Bob Henderson and the Tories voted him into the chair by five votes to three . 
Coun. Henderson will remain chairman only for today 's meeting , as members of the opposition party are not entitled to hold the chair of any Corporation committee , and it is expected that at the next meeting of the committee the Labour members will arrive in force to put matters right . 
Councillor accuses Labour paper 
COUN . 
MRS . 
ETHEL CHALK has protested vigorously against " misrepresentation of the facts " in the Newcastle Labour Record — a news sheet published at the time of the municipal elections . 
" In this paper , " she says , "the Socialists say they built the Mary Magdalen home for old people . 
" The home was built by the Schools and Charities Committee with money left to the City . " 
The sentence in the paper reads : "We have built old people 's homes such as the Mary Magdalen homes . " 
Mrs. Chalk also complains that the paper stated that the Welfare Committee would complete two new homes for the elderly during 1961 . 
" I challenged this statement at this week 's meeting of the Welfare Committee , " she said " and the chairman was forced to admit that neither of the new homes would be open until next year . " 
COMIC-STRIP PARIS SEND-OFF Smiles , handshake as K. and K. meet 
PRESIDENT JOHN KENNEDY , young leader of the West , today shook hands with Premier Nikita Kruschev , wily , experienced leader of the Communist bloc , in neutral Vienna . 
Mr. Kennedy was smiling , Mr. Kruschev beaming , as they met for the first time on the steps of the American Ambassador 's home . 
As they grasped hands at the top of the nine stone steps leading to the residence door , Mr. Kennedy said to his interpreter : " Ask him if it would be all right to shake hands again for the photographers . " 
Mr. Kruschev agreed , and they vigorously shook hands again . 
Then they went inside to the white-walled music room to begin their first talks — over lunch . 
CHEERS 
As President Kennedy drove from the airport , people stood and cheered in the rain . 
Some carried banners reading " Help Berlin . " 
One said : " Give him hell , Jack . " 
Mr. Kruschev drove into the grounds of the residence in a black Zil limousine with his Foreign Minister , Mr. Gromyko , about 25 minutes after Mr. Kennedy and his Secretary of State , Mr. Rusk . 
After lunch , the talks were to continue until 6 p.m. round a coffee table in a small room furnished in red and grey in early American style . 
Mrs. Kennedy reached the residence earlier at the head of another convoy of cars , having driven direct from the airport . 
COMIC STRIP 
A series of comic-strip mishaps frustrated President Kennedy 's attempts to leave Paris . 
Eventually his aircraft took off — a quarter of an hour behind schedule . 
First the CAR carrying Mr. Dean Rusk , Secretary of State , broke down on the way to the airport . 
It was pushed off the road and another one was produced , but the party was ten minutes late reaching the airport . 
Then just as the Presidential jet was about to taxi on to the runway another group of the party rushed on to the tarmac and a packet of NEWSPAPERS was also thrown aboard . 
At last the plane 's doors were again closed and it taxied off . 
But then a massive American SECRET SERVICE MAN ran after it , gesticulating and shouting for it to stop . 
He was breathlessly followed by Providencia , Mrs. Kennedy 's COLOURED MAID , who had apparently got left behind while she searched for a lost suitcase . 
THE MAID 
No sooner was Providencia on board than yet another late-comer was seen running across the tarmac . 
It was "Tish , " Mrs. Kennedy 's SOCIAL SECRETARY , Miss Letitia Baldridge . 
Then , with all passengers apparently aboard , the jet finally got under way for Vienna . 
There were cries of " Goodbye Jackie " and " Goodbye Madame " as Mrs. Kennedy , wearing a light blue woollen overcoat , a white straw hat and gloves , walked towards the aircraft just behind the President . 
With them were M. Debre , the French Prime Minister , M. Maurice Couve de Murville , Foreign Minister , and the Austrian Ambassador , Herr Adria Rotter . 
New Summit ? 
Mac and Kennedy weigh up chances By JOSEPH TOBIN , Our Political Correspondent . 
MR . 
MACMILLAN and President Kennedy today considered the next critical steps towards a full Summit conference of the major powers . 
With Summit diplomacy revived in a spectacular fashion by the Vienna meeting with Mr. Kruschev , the President considered with the Prime Minister the chances of a meeting of the Big Four soon . 
This was the highlight of the review of East-West relations in the meeting between the President and the Prime Minister . 
The talks lasted for three hours . 
This was a surprise , for they had only been scheduled to last two hours . 
But it is understood that the Prime Minister and the President extended their meeting to consider fully Mr. Kruschev 's tough attitude on several major questions at the Vienna meeting . 
The Russians are said to be taking up a tougher attitude on many problems , particularly on Berlin . 
There was complete agreement between the Premier and the President on the West 's policy concerning Berlin . 
The two men met alone in the Prime Minister 's study at Admiralty House . 
ARRIVED EARLY 
The President surprised the Prime Minister 's staff by arriving ten minutes early for the talks . 
In their man-to-man exchanges they also considered the situation in Laos . 
Above all , they considered the future of " Summitry . " 
They had to answer the question : " Does the Vienna meeting , with its vague goodwill , but no practical results , justify further steps along the same road . " 
COMMON MARKET 
The President also reported on Mr. Kruschev 's attitude to nuclear testing and disarmament . 
All reports are that Mr. Kruschev was unyielding on these two issues . 
It is understood that Mr. Macmillan also questioned the President on his earlier talks with President de Gaulle . 
This meeting may have a crucial bearing on Britain 's possible entry into the common market . 
AT THE PALACE 
This evening the Premier and President will issue a communique on their talks . 
Tonight the Kennedys will go to Buckingham Palace for dinner with the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh . 
WATER GUNS HOSE BERLINERS ON BORDER U.S. troops threatened in a second incident 
East German police to-day shot streams of water at West Berliners standing within 100yds. of the border , on the Western side , West Berlin police reported . 
The East German Interior Ministry on Tuesday told West Berliners to keep 100yds. from the borders . 
The Western commandants , ordering Allied troops up to the border yesterday , described this as " effrontery . " 
In another incident , an East German police officer to-day called on American soldiers standing just behind the sector border demarcation line to withdraw , and when the Americans did not move a water cannon lorry drove up on the East Berlin side , a West German News Agency reported . 
But after a while the water hose was withdrawn with the Americans still in position . 
East Berlin police last night threw several tear gas grenades into a group of 40 West Berliners listening to a West Berlin loudspeaker van which had drawn up close to the border to broadcast news . 
Winds blew the tear gas back across the border and someone in the crowd threw one of the grenades back , a police spokesman said . 
" Showing flag " 
Meanwhile British , American and French troops , backed by tanks , to-day stood guard along the city 's dividing line . 
The troops took station yesterday along the city sector boundary after the East German Government introduced stringent new regulations for passage from one half of the city to the other . 
They remained on guard all night , and to-day British forces , with tanks and armoured cars , took part in their second " show-the-flag " exercise in three days . 
The Dutch and Swedish consulates in Berlin said to-day they had received reports that foreign residents in East Germany were having difficulties in leaving the territory . 
In East Berlin , Foreign Ministry officials said they had not heard of any new regulations banning foreigners from going to West Berlin . 
Offices shut 
No offices of the East German travel agency were opened in West Berlin to-day " because the West Berlin City Government refused permission , " an East German railway official said . 
Moscow Radio said in an English-language broadcast beamed at Britain that " Whitehall is playing a dangerous game with fire across a powder magazine " over the Berlin issue . 
" Such deeds are fraught with the danger of a military catastrophe in which Britain , too , would be involved , " said the broadcast . 
THREAT TO AIR CORRIDOR " SERIOUS " 
Britain would regard any threat to the air communications with Berlin as " an extremely serious matter , " said a Foreign Office spokesman in London to-day . 
He had been asked about the Berlin air corridors which , it is understood , are referred to in the new Soviet Note on the Berlin situation . 
He would not , however , make any official comment on the Note itself . 
It is understood that the references on the air corridors introduces a new element into the situation , writes a diplomatic correspondent . 
Being studied 
The full text of the Note was received by the Foreign Office to-day from the British Embassy in Moscow . 
Similar Notes have been delivered to the United States and French Governments . 
The Notes are being studied by the three Western powers and will also be discussed by the ambassadorial steering group in Washington , on which Britain , the U.S. , France and West Germany are represented . 
According to the Soviet news agency Tass — quoted by Reuter — the Soviet Government have protested in the Notes against the use of the air corridors to West Berlin for " subversive and revenge-seeking aims of West German militarists . " 
"Provocative " 
The Notes demanded that the Western powers take " immediate measures to end the unlawful and provocative activities " of the West German Government in West Berlin . 
The Notes also said there had been " a flagrant breach of the agreement reached in 1945 under which air corridors were set aside for the three Western powers , on a temporary basis , to ensure the needs of their military garrisons , and not for subversive and revanchist purposes of West German militarism . " 
Russia insisted that the Western powers " take immediate measures to put an end to the unlawful and provocative actions of the Federal German Republic in West Berlin . " 
ROW FLARES AT BERLIN STATION But Premier optimistic 
Tension in Berlin soared again to-day with angry protests over travel restrictions imposed by the East Germans and a threat by the West of " necessary action . " 
On the brighter side , Mr. Macmillan gave an impromptu news conference on the Gleneagles golf course and said he thought no-one would fight over Berlin , and Mr. Khrushchev was quoted as saying that he was willing to talk over the difficulties . 
The East German restriction which caused to-day 's trouble concerned the issuing of permits for West Berliners wishing to travel to the East on the overhead railway . 
The Western Commandants authorised the City Government to take " necessary action " against the issuing of permits . 
Angry West Berliners , shouting , " Get out , you pigs , " gathered outside the Zoo railway station to-day after the East German officials who run it started issuing permits . 
Six policemen kept the crowd of 50 to 60 people at a distance , but one woman who went up to the ticket window to get an application form for a permit was spat on by a fellow West Berliner . 
Offices shut 
Finally the office was shut , along with a similar office at Westkureuz Station . 
The U.S. Commandant in Berlin has made an oral protest to his Soviet counterpart " concerning the illegal regulations issued by East German authorities in recent days and incidents arising therefrom . " 
The 1st Battalion the Welch Regiment increased patrols on the border between the British sector of West Berlin and East Germany to-day to counter increased East German activity on the other side . 
Mr. Macmillan , who is holidaying in Scotland , spoke to reporters on the 18th fairway of the golf course . 
He declared : " Berlin is one of those things we have to be careful about — that nobody does anything foolish . 
" Risk of folly " 
" I think there would be much more danger of war if weapons were not so destructive . 
Fifty years ago we could have had a war . 
Now it is not much fun for anybody . 
" But there is always the danger of folly . 
I think the way it is going on is very worrying , but nothing more . " 
To-morrow Mr. Macmillan is to discuss the Berlin situation with Lord Home , the Foreign Secretary , at Gleneagles . 
It was learned to-day that Lord Home will afterwards go to stay privately with Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother at Birkhall . 
In Copenhagen , Drew Pearson , syndicated American newspaper columnist , said that Mr. Krushchev had told him he was willing to meet Western leaders " as soon as possible . " 
"Strongest protest " over Caldon Canal closure plan URGENT MATTER , SAY CHEADLE R.D.C. 
Cheadle Rural Council 's Town Planning and Plans Committee decided yesterday to protest " in the strongest possible terms " against the proposal to close part of the Caldon Canal between Hazelhurst New Locks and Froghall . 
Later the full council endorsed this step " as a matter of urgency . " 
At their last meeting the committee were told by the Deputy Area Planning Officer , Mr. B. Skelland , that it was planned eventually to " reintegrate " that section of the canal with the adjoining land . 
Yesterday the committee were informed that the proposal to close the canal had been made by the British Transport Commission to the Inland Waterways Redevelopment Advisory Committee . 
In a letter , the Inland Waterways Protection Society told the committee that in the case of each threatened canal , they carried out an inspection of every yard of the waterway and eventually submitted a scheme to the Redevelopment Committee showing how the canal under review could , if properly managed , be made to pay its way . 
Claiming that their schemes had always been ignored , the society maintained that all details concerning the closing of the Caldon Branch of the Trent and Mersey Canal were worked out years ago and were one further step towards the " elimination " of the inland waterways . 
The society pointed out that the present capital value of the Caldon Canal was in the region of £20 millions . 
" Alarmed " 
It was also reported that the Service of Youth Scheme and Kingsley and Ipstones Parish Council were unanimously opposed to the proposed closure of the canal . 
The Froghall firm of Thomas Bolton and Sons Ltd. , said they were " alarmed " at the possibility of the canal being closed , and the elimination of the water-feed from the canal to their works would have " extremely serious consequences " and might result in the closing of much plant unless satisfactory alternatives were provided . 
Another firm affected by the proposed closure , W. Podmore and Sons Ltd. , of Shelton , who have a factory at Consall , pointed out that any extraction of water would seriously affect their interests . 
Brittains Ltd. , of Cheddleton Paper Mills , said their own use of the canal had diminished over the years , and if the time came for disposal of parts of the canal , they would be very interested in considering the purchase of that portion which lay alongside their factory . 
The Chairman of the Planning Committee , Mr. J. H. Aberley , recommended that the council should protest most strongly against the closure . 
He pointed out that the council were not in a position to put in a piped water supply to factories . 
" Lifeblood " 
Mr. T. P. Brindley suggested that firms taking water from the canal should be asked to contribute towards its upkeep . 
Instead of thinking of closing the canal , he said , steps should be taken to find out if the silt could be removed and the canal restored to its full industrial use , particularly as the railway was now closed to passenger traffic . 
Mr. F. R. Ford commented : " It is time this country spent a bit more money on canals . 
They are the lifeblood of some countries , and they can still do a lot for this country . " 
He suggested that the money for " reintegrating " the canal with the adjoining land would be better spent in cleaning it up and making it usable again . " 
BERLIN PUTS BLANKET ON BOMB TALKS British effort at Geneva 
Mr. David Ormsby-Gore , leader of the British delegation at the Geneva conference on the banning of nuclear tests , which started to-day , said before leaving London Airport : " I am not very optimistic in the present climate . " 
Former Minister of State for Foreign Affairs , he added : " But we mean to make a real effort to get the Russians moving again in these negotiations . " 
He added that it would probably be his last attendance at the talks before taking up his fresh post as Britain 's Ambassador in Washington in October . 
Mr. Ormsby-Gore , asked if he was hopeful of a solution being found in view of the Berlin crisis , said : " I think the general political atmosphere is not conducive to progress in any negotiations with the Soviet Union at the present time . 
" I do not say it has eliminated any hope of settlement , but clearly the Soviet Union do not appear at the moment to be very interested in reaching any agreements with the West . " 
Deadlock 
Asked if the deadlock was likely to continue in the talks , he said : " I do not know at all . 
It will depend upon the instructions Mr. Tsarapkin ( the Russian delegate ) has brought back with him from Moscow . " 
In the talks , the West were making yet another determined bid to try to get a nuclear test ban treaty with Russia . 
The U.S. delegation , led by Mr. Arthur Dean , are under instructions from President Kennedy to make the maximum effort to reach agreement with Russia . 
The talks began three years ago and have been deadlocked for the past five months . 
Diplomatic observers said the biggest obstacle to agreement was the Soviet " Troika " proposal , demanding that the International Control Organisation , which would " police " a test ban , should be headed by three administrators — one each from the Communist , Western and neutral groups — instead of one . 
CASTRO URGES BRAZILIANS : " RISE AND FIGHT OLD GUARD " Fears attack on Cuban Government 
With events in Brazil leading to fears of anarchy , Dr. Fidel Castro to-day urged the country to " make use of the experience of Cuba and hurl itself into battle . " 
CLR . 
BROOK BECOMES HUDDERSFIELD 'S 61st MAYOR A momentous year in prospect 
CLR . 
HARRY FRANCE BROOK became Huddersfield 's sixty-first Mayor and was also elected an alderman at the annual meeting of the Town Council this afternoon . 
Ald. Brook has been a Liberal representative for the Birkby Ward since 1944 . 
He is chairman of directors and founder of the firm of Messrs. H. F. Brook and Co . 
Ltd. , woollen merchants and clothiers , St. John 's Road , Huddersfield . 
His daughter , Mrs. Jean W. Nicholson , is the new Mayoress . 
More than 1,500 flowers and potted plants , delicately arranged by the Corporation Parks Department staff , provided a brilliant background for the Town Hall ceremony . 
Ald. Day , the retiring Mayor , presided over the ceremony . 
He and Mrs. Day are to serve as the Deputy Mayor and Mayoress . 
Clr . 
A. J. Hazelden , moving the resolution to elect Clr . 
Brook , said : " The name of Brook has for scores of years been associated with Huddersfield , and for nearly the lifetime of the county borough since its incorporation 1868 there has been a Brook a member of this Council . 
" Our new Mayor will be the fifth of that name in the long history of Huddersfield , " he went on . 
Clr . 
Hazelden said that Brook was a good old Anglo-Saxon name — and one with two meanings . 
The first meaning — that of " stream " — was appropriate having regard to the number of Brooks who had served the Council today and in the past . 
The second meaning — " to suffer insult or injury " — would , they all sincerely hoped , not be the lot of the Mayor-elect ! 
Clr . 
Brook began his education in two of the local schools . 
As a boy and a man his interests had covered a very wide field — he ( Clr . 
Hazelden ) understood that in the world of sport , particularly , the new Mayor had shown considerable ability as a footballer and a cricketer and , more latterly , as a bowler . 
His work on the Council over the many years of his service had been outstanding in more than one respect . 
" Among the many committees of which he has been a member it can not be said that his sincerity and purpose have been lacking in any degree , " said Clr . 
Hazelden . 
Clr . 
Hazelden went on to refer to the various committees on which Clr . 
Brook served — including the Children 's Committee , of which he was Chairman , the Watch Committee of which he was also Chairman , and the Mental Health Sub-Committee of the Health Committee . 
Desire to "play the game " 
" All of us know the remarks made about the Watch Committee — and they are not always too kind , " said Clr . 
Hazelden . 
" The source of law and order is not always very popular , but is still very essential , and Clr . 
Brook , the chairman , has a knowledge of police administration not only locally but nationally , for he was a member of the Police Committee of the Association of Municipal Corporations and a representative on the Police Training College Board . " 
Clr . 
Brook saw to it that certain minimum standards were conformed with and no-one could deny his fairness . 
" His views , although not accepted , are in accordance with the earnest desire — be it in the civic field of duty or on the field of sport — to " play the game . " " 
The new civic year could be a momentous one for Huddersfield . 
It might well be that the foundations of the " new Huddersfield " would be laid , and never before had such tremendous innovations and plans for the future been contemplated . 
Not only were the Council there to acknowledge the new Mayor , said Clr . 
Hazelden , but for the second time in Huddersfield 's long history they were to honour their new Mayor with an aldermanic seat . 
Clr . 
Hazelden recalled that in 1873 , when Clr . 
Henry Brook was elected Mayor , he too was made an alderman at the same time . 
Clr . 
Hazelden 's election motion was supported by Clrs . 
Mrs. R. Townsend and C. C. Hoyle . 
Clr . 
Mrs. Townsend said that people should be grateful that men of Clr . 
Brook 's calibre and business acumen gave their services to the community . 
Severe test of stamina 
Clr . 
Hoyle said that a Mayor 's life was a severe test of physical and moral stamina . 
The year of office was filled to capacity with deputations , speeches , receptions and many other duties — including about 700 meetings concerned with Council affairs . 
Notwithstanding this terrific strain , the Mayors impressed everyone not only by their ability but by their strength of character and sincerity of thought . 
Clr . 
Brook possessed those qualities in high degree . 
" Here is someone whose friendship is a possession to be cherished , " Clr . 
Hoyle added . 
On his return to the Council meeting attired in the Mayoral robes , and after taking the oath of office , the new Mayor thanked the Council for the honour they had accorded to him . 
He was very proud to be Mayor of his native town — a town for which he had a great affection . 
He was proud of Huddersfield 's name in municipal government . 
" We who serve on the Town Council have our critics , " Clr . 
Brook continued . 
" While criticism of a constructive kind is good , I have little patience with he who praises with enthusiastic tone all centuries but this , and every town but his own . " 
All members of the Council , irrespective of their political views , were animated by the desire to make Huddersfield worthy of its citizens . 
It was true to say of everyone entering local government — not least a mayor — that he or she became a visionary . 
More delectable place 
" I have a vision of Huddersfield of the not-too-distant future when the great schemes , some already nearing completion , have come to fruition , " the Mayor continued . 
" Huddersfield will then be a more delectable place . " 
After listing the various developments the Mayor said that all these were necessary schemes that could only be carried out at cost and some inconvenience . 
It was important , therefore , that they should take the public into their confidence and seek their support for these latest efforts in municipal enterprise . 
In many of the functions of a local authority it was not enough that a task should be done efficiently , but that it must also be done sympathetically . 
Impersonality and coldness would alienate and repel , however impressive the achievement , and however faultless the organisation . 
Speaking of the fact that his daughter would be undertaking the duties of Mayoress , Clr . 
Brook stressed the point that she would seek to combine her official duties with those of having to run a home and a very young family . 
He hoped that the demands made on her during working hours would not be too great . 
He concluded : " I am very conscious of the confidence you have reposed in me and I trust that when , a year hence , the time comes for me to surrender my regalia of office , I shall be able to pass it on unsullied to my successor , and you will feel that that confidence was not misplaced . " 
Put Huddersfield on the map 
A vote of thanks to the retiring Mayor was proposed by Clr . 
E. L. Thackray and supported by Clrs . 
D. Sisson and B. M. Schofield . 
Clr . 
Thackray said that their warmest thanks were due to Ald. and Mrs. Day , who had not spared themselves in carrying out their duties . 
Ald. Day had lost no opportunity of " selling Huddersfield " on official visits , and he had put Huddersfield on the map with dignity . 
He himself had always remained a very likeable person , and had presided efficiently over Council meetings . 
Clr . 
Sisson spoke of the fine co-operation Ald. Day had had from his employers , Messrs. Thomas Broadbent and Sons Ltd. , engineers , which had enabled him to perform all his Mayoral duties . 
Clr . 
Schofield remarked that he had served under Ald. Day 's chairmanship on the Markets and Fairs Committee all the time that he ( Clr . 
Schofield ) had been on the Council . 
He praised the valuable work Ald. Day had done during his long association with that committee . 
People " made us feel at home " 
Ald. Day said in reply that he and the retiring Mayoress had had the feeling during their period of office that they were the heads of a " large and united family . " 
"The people of Huddersfield , of all ages , classes , creeds and colour , have made us feel at home and welcome on all occasions . 
We look back with very happy memories on the year which is now passing . " 
Ald. Day recalled that twelve months ago he expressed the hope that during his Mayoralty he would see much of the old property in the town demolished and derelict sites made more presentable . 
" I venture to say that since that day there have never been more buildings pulled down and new ones put up in any one year of our lifetime , " he told the Council . 
" I think it can truly be said that Huddersfield is experiencing the biggest " face-lift " in its history , and the boom in new buildings and road construction indicates " full steam ahead " for a long time to come . " 
Ald. Day paid tribute to the Mayoress for her support and also thanked the Deputy Mayor and Mayoress ( Clr. and Mrs. F. Lawton ) , the Town Clerk ( Mr. H. Bann ) , the Mayor 's Secretary ( Mr. W. Stoney ) and other Corporation officials for their assistance . 
DISAGREEMENT OVER ELECTION OF TWO ALDERMEN Labour protest by not voting 
LABOUR councillors at this afternoon 's meeting of Huddersfield Town Council made it clear beforehand that they would abstain from voting on the matter of the elevation to the aldermanic bench of two former members defeated at the polls in the recent Municipal Elections . 
In addition to the Mayor , the two defeated councillors at the elections — Mr. Clifford Stephenson ( Lib. ) and Mr. F. W. Fielding ( Con. ) — had been nominated as new aldermen to fill the places of Ald. C. Hickson and Ald. G. E. Tomlinson ( retiring ) and a seat vacated by Labour . 
Aldermen J. F. C. Cole , J. T. Gee , H. A. Bennie Gray , N. Day and Mrs. M. L. Middlebrook Haigh were being nominated for a further term of six years . 
The elevation of Clr . 
Brook creates a by-election in Birkby ward . 
News of Labour 's abstention came in a statement to "The Examiner " by Clr . 
Reginald Hartley , leader of the Labour group on the Council , before he went into the annual meeting . 
He and his colleagues , he said , had decided to support the majority of aldermanic proposals , but would not support the election of Messrs. Stephenson and Fielding . 
" Opposed in principle " 
The statement read : " 
The Labour group on the Council are opposed in principle to the election of persons to the office of alderman from outside the elected representatives to the Council . 
We fully appreciate that such elections are legally admissible , and that in fact such elections have been made from time to time by all parties in various towns and cities of this country . 
Nevertheless we feel that it is contrary to our democratic principles to elect people to the office of alderman , enabling them to have equal rights in the government of our town with those persons who have been democratically elected as councillors by the votes of the people . 
Indeed , we had every reason to believe that this principle would be accepted by all parties on the Council in view of the fact that , by signed agreement between the parties concerning the filling of aldermanic vacancies , such vacancies should be filled from the elected representatives at the time in proportion to party strength — the exception being that when , for some special reason , a nomination is made from outside elected representatives , this should only be done by agreement among all parties . 
" We shall refrain " 
We therefore feel that by the nominations on this occasion both Liberal and Conservative Parties have violated the spirit of such agreement in addition to the principle of democratic election by the people . 
Therefore on this occasion we intend to support the election of the nominees of the Liberal and Conservative parties who are members at the time of election but we shall refrain from supporting the two nominees who are not members of this authority . 
" TRUJILLO : A SUSPECT AND PRIEST HELD 
THE Dominican Government announced today it had taken into custody one of the suspected killers of Generalissimo Rafael Trujillo together with a priest accused of harbouring him on the night of the murder . 
The suspect was identified as Huascar Tejeda Reina and his alleged protector as Father Gabriel Maduro . 
Still at large are Gen. Juan Diaz , retired , who is said to be the chief assassin , and at least four alleged accomplices — his brothers Rafel and Antonio and two friends , Amado Garcia Guerrero and Pedro Lirio Sedeno . 
Police said Tejeda admitted he was at the priest 's house on the night of the killing , but denied any part in the murder . 
Father Maduro has denied harbouring Tejeda . 
The arrests were announced a few hours after Trujillo 's son , Gen. Rafael , had taken up the reins of power his father held for more than 30 years . 
U.S. will oppose aggression — Kennedy 
PRESIDENT KENNEDY said in Paris today the United States was determined to oppose any aggression , whatever its strength and whatever the strength needed to resist it . 
He said Soviet development in the field of ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons had made the United States vulnerable . 
" All this has modified the very conception of defence and has made this defence indivisible , Washington is today closer to Moscow than any city in Europe has been in the past . " 
Berlin 
He said Berlin would be one of the subjects he would discuss with Mr. Kruschev in Vienna this weekend . 
Mr. Kennedy said he and General de Gaulle were agreed it was not desirable that force should be used to settle this problem . 
His meeting with Mr. Kruschev would be to discuss the interests of the United States and her allies and the interests of the Soviet Union and her associates . 
Laos 
On Laos , Mr. Kennedy said the U.S. would continue to participate in the Laos conference as long as there was any hope of reaching a solution . 
Mr. Kruschev left Bratislava today by train for Vienna for his meeting with President Kennedy . 
MAC PUTS ACCENT ON YOUTH IN " TEAM " RESHUFFLE 
THE Prime Minister has now almost completed plans for a considerable reshuffle in the middle ranks of the Government — and promotions for a number of younger M.P.s are confidently expected . 
The changes follow the appointment of Mr. David Ormesby-Gore as British Ambassador in Washington . 
Mr. Ormesby-Gore has now resigned as Minister of State at the Foreign Office , while another reason for the reshuffle is the appointment of a new Minister to help the Colonies — the first Minister for Technical Co-operation . 
" PLUM " JOBS 
Both these posts — at the Foreign Office and at the new Ministry — are " plum " jobs , and it is understood that Mr. Macmillan has already decided on the appointments . 
Sir Edward Boyle , Financial Secretary to the Treasury , is favoured for the new Technical Co-operation Ministry . 
K. meets K. round a coffee table in Vienna 
THE two most powerful men in the world met round a coffee table in a small cosily-furnished Vienna music room today for talks on East-West issues which may shape the destinies of millions of people throughout the world . 
President John Kennedy , 44 last Monday and in power only four months , met Mr. Kruschev , who at 67 , has wielded supreme power in the Soviet Union for four years . 
These two men of vastly different backgrounds — a millionaire and the other the revolutionary son of a coal-miner — will meet for a total of 10 hours to size each other up . 
The two men met at the American Ambassador 's residence on the outskirts of the city shortly after President Kennedy flew in from Paris with his wife after his talks with President De Gaulle . 
Range 
Mrs. Kruschev is also in Vienna — she spent some time this morning at an art gallery . 
Tomorrow the two men will meet again . 
The two leaders will discuss a wide range of world problems , although both have made clear there will be no negotiations . 
Mr. Kruschev said when he arrived in Vienna that he wanted to make personal contact with Mr. Kennedy and to discuss the main issues in Soviet-American relations . 
Mr. Kennedy came to Vienna to try to find out from Mr. Kruschev whether any progress could be made in the stalled Geneva conferences — on Laos and on a nuclear weapons test ban treaty . 
For the man of the moment , another grand hand ... 
LONDON gave President Kennedy another big hand to-day when he left Buckingham Place , the home of his wife 's sister . 
For his part , the President was in genial form ( left ) . 
The enthusiasm was renewed when he later went to Admiralty House for talks and lunch with Mr. Macmillan . 
KENNEDY , MAC LOOK AHEAD TO NEW SUMMIT They weigh up value of Vienna talks By JOSEPH TOBIN 
MR . 
MACMILLAN and President Kennedy today considered the next steps towards a full summit conference of the major Powers . 
The Summit diplomacy revived in a spectacular fashion by the Vienna meeting with Mr. Kruschev . 
President Kennedy considered with Mr. Macmillan the chances of a meeting of the Big Four soon . 
This was the highlight of a two-hour review of East-West relations in the meeting between the President and the Prime Minister . 
The two men met alone in the Prime Minister 's study in Admiralty House . 
From this first floor room overlooking Whitehall they could see the crowds waiting to greet Mrs. Kennedy as she joined the men and other guests for lunch . 
CONTRAST 
This meeting between the two Western leaders in the room normally used by the First Lord of the Admiralty — the Prime Minister is using it while 10 , Downing Street is being rebuilt — is in contrast to the opulent surroundings in which the President met Mr. Kruschev in Vienna . 
The President surprised the Prime Minister 's staff by arriving 10 minutes early for the talks . 
Behind the spectacle of the cheering crowds in the sunshine there were a number of queries hanging over President Kennedy 's report to Mr. Macmillan on the talks with Mr. Kruschev . 
In their man-to-man exchanges they considered the future policy on Berlin — on which differences of opinion between Britain and the U.S. are reported — and the situation in Laos and Mr. Kruschev 's reaction to this . 
Above all , they considered the future of " summitry . " 
They had to answer the question : " Does the Vienna meeting , with its vague good-will but no practical results , justify further steps along the same road . " 
President Kennedy also reported on Mr. Kruschev 's attitude to nuclear testing and disarmament . 
All reports are that Mr. Kruschev was unyielding on these issues . 
It is understood that Mr. Macmillan also questioned the President on his earlier talks with President de Gaulle . 
This meeting may have a crucial bearing on Britain 's possible entry into the Common Market . 
President Kennedy has been attempting to use his good office to this end . 
Among the prominent guests at the lunch at Admiralty House were the Foreign Secretary , Lord Home , Chancellor of the Exchequer , Mr. Selwyn Lloyd , and the new British Ambassador to the United States , Mr. David Ormsby-Gore . 
Tonight President and Mrs. Kennedy go to Buckingham Palace for dinner with the Queen and Duke of Edinburgh . 
It was expected that a communique on today 's talks would be issued later today . 
The U.S. Secretary of State , Mr. Dean Rusk , was " not encouraging " in his view of the Kennedy-Kruschev weekend talks , according to reports in Paris . 
MAC KEEPS SILENT ON TALKS WITH KENNEDY 
MR . 
MACMILLAN refused to be drawn when answering questions in the Commons this afternoon on his talks with President Kennedy yesterday . 
He had nothing to add to the communique which was issued after the talks , he said . 
" Mr. Kennedy wished to have a private conversation with me and it was agreed it should be private , " the Prime Minister continued . 
" If I were to publish afterwards what we said to each other it would not be private . " 
He added : " I do not think it would be in the public interest for me to make a detailed statement on the specific points raised . " 
"The British and U.S. administrations are in constant touch on these matters . " 
There were loud cries of Lab. , Newcastle-under-Lyme ) " No " when Mr. S. T. Swingler asked : " Are we not entitled to know what the British Prime Minister said ? 
Is he not responsible to the whole House ? " 
There was laughter when the Prime Minister replied : " Discourteous as it would be for me to give an account of what the President said , it would be almost more discourteous of me to give an account of what I said . " 
WORTLEY PUT THEIR CASE AGAINST CITY " TAKEOVER " 
REPRESENTATIVES of Wortley Rural Council today met the Local Government Commission in London to discuss the proposals of other authorities affecting the rural district . 
Wortley are very much concerned about Sheffield 's proposals , which could reduce the population of the rural district by more than 40 per cent and the rateable value by more than 22 per cent . 
3,600 HOUSES 
Sheffield , whose case is based on housing grounds , are seeking to extend their boundaries to take in part of the Ecclesfield and Bradfield parishes . 
If successful , they would take into the city more than 3,000 houses which they have built in the Parson Cross area , and more than 600 Wortley council houses , as well as eight schools , a clinic and two parks . 
Wortley Council have offered to buy all Sheffield Corporation houses built in the rural district and to administer them as part of their own housing programme . 
OTHER PURPOSES 
Concerning Bradfield parish , Sheffield proposes substantial Corporation housing at Stannington adjoining existing development , partly private and partly the Rural Council 's . 
Rotherham Corporation are seeking to take into their boundary that part of Thorpe Hesley which is in Wortley district . 
Councils agree to merger plan 
Three of four local authorities concerned in a merger plan for local government re-organisation in the Barnsley area have agreed to the scheme . 
They are Penistone Rural and Dodworth and Penistone Urban Councils . 
The fourth authority , Stocksbridge Urban Council , are to discuss the plan this month . 
The scheme will probably be put forward by the West Riding County Council during discussions with the Local Government Boundaries Commission in London next month . 
The four districts have a combined population of about 30,000 . 
Gromyko brings fear of breakdown in Geneva talks on Laos BRITAIN HITS BACK AS MR K ACCUSES Reds turn on the heat over Berlin By JOSEPH TOBIN 
BRITAIN is to give a short and sharp rebuff to Mr. Kruschev 's latest attempt to stir up an international crisis over West Berlin . 
The British Government is to reject out of hand the Russian complaint that W. Berlin is being used for the organisation of " international provocations endangering peace . " 
The Foreign Secretary , Lord Home , is preparing his reply to Russia 's complaint . 
The terms of the reply are expected to be delivered late tonight . 
The cause of the present clash with the Russians is the decision of the West Germans to hold Parliamentary committee meetings in Berlin and a session next week of the Federal Parliament 's upper house there . 
REJECTED 
The West German President , Herr Luebke , today rejected the Russian complaints . 
Lord Home 's reply will be on similar lines . 
The Russians have protested to the United States , France , and Britain at " unlawful " meetings of the West German Parliamentary committees in West Berlin . 
I understand that the Foreign Secretary will say in his reply to Mr. Kruschev that Britain does not think these meetings are against the four-Power status of the city . 
He will remind Mr. Kruschev that similar meetings have been held in the past . 
SURPRISED 
Although President Kennedy described his talks on Germany and Berlin with the Soviet leader as " most sombre " observers were surprised today that Russia should raise the Berlin issue with the Western powers so quickly after the Vienna meeting . 
Meanwhile , Western delegates fear that Mr. Andrei Gromyko , the Russian Foreign Minister , has returned empty-handed to the Geneva international conference on Laos , which is in danger of completely breaking down over the question of a ceasefire . 
In Vienna , Mr. Kruschev had acknowledged the importance of an effective cease-fire in Laos . 
TO CONTEST WOOD DITTON STAKES Pinturischio Has Impressed By OLD ROWLEY NEWMARKET , Thursday . 
PINTURISCHIO is expected to make his long-awaited debut in the Wood Ditton Stakes at our Craven meeting a week today . 
Even though he has not been seriously tried at home , let alone raced , this colt whom Noel Murless trains for Sir Victor Sassoon , is already ante-post favourite for the Derby . 
On Saturday morning , Pinturischio did his most informative work to date , but it would be presumptuous to say that observers were left a great deal wiser as to his ability . 
The gallop took place over a mile on the Racecourse Side , where he was accompanied by Aurelius ( Lester Piggott ) , Hunter 's Song and Magnificat , three other maidens . 
Throughout most of the trip Pinturischio was held up about a length behind his workmates , who were galloping in line abreast . 
Then with half a furlong left , his pilot let out a reef and asked him to run up to them . 
Pinturischio responded instantaneously and shot up to them , only to be steadied again . 
The manner in which he accelerated when given the " office " was that of a high-class horse , and reminiscent of what we used to see St. Paddy do at this time last year . 
Whatever Pinturischio has been asked to do to date , he has accomplished in effortless style , and his future is obviously extremely bright . 
By and large it is usually as well to dismiss home-trained colts that did not race at two years of age from one 's calculations on the Derby . 
Long Stride 
It stands to reason that if a horse is too backward to race during his first season in training , he is most unlikely to be sufficiently mature to beat the best of his generation in the late May or early June of the following year , and it is a number of years now since a horse that embarked upon its three-year-old career unraced has won the Derby . 
Captain Boyd-Rochfort 's Prince Simon came within an ace of doing so in 1950 , and it is interesting to note that he made a winning debut in the Wood Ditton Stakes . 
The foregoing precedent need not prejudice our assessment of Pinturischio 's prospects unduly , as there are extenuating circumstances in his case . 
He did start to come to himself last back-end , and he impressed on several occasions when his long stride enabled him to lay up in seven furlong spins with more forward companions . 
Such was his progress during those Autumn months that Noel Murless had intended to give him an outing on the Rowley Mile course here , but unfortunately the going came up heavy and the project was abandoned . 
Stern Opposition 
Although the Wood Ditton Stakes is confined to three-year-olds that have never run at starting , the opposition is likely to be stern enough to test Pinturischio . 
Jack Jarvis 's Allenby and Captain Boyd-Rochfort 's Sagacity have been working as though they will prove particularly formidable rivals to him . 
Allenby is much more forward than Pinturischio and the other morning he was not disgraced in a seven furlong gallop with Test Case , Pinzon and Bold Liver . 
Of course Allenby has no claims to being the peer of the stable 's Derby horse Test Case , but he fared well enough in the latter 's company to suggest that he will be a factor with which to be reckoned in any maiden race . 
The morning of the day in which Harry Carr met with his accident at Lincoln , he rode Sagacity in a six furlong gallop with Pardao ( D. Smith ) , Good Old Days ( T. Lowrey ) and the four-year-old Polo ( W. Snaith ) on the Racecourse Side . 
Carr held Sagacity a couple of lengths behind the others from start to finish in this spin , and considering that the trip was too sharp for such a big horse as this handsome son of Le Sage he acquitted himself extremely well . 
Sagacity could be the one to give Pinturischio most to do if they meet next Thursday . 
An Omen 
Pinturischio has impressed so much by the way in which he has done his work rather than what he has done in it , that I fully expect him to lay a solid foundation to his claims to be considered the Derby winner by scoring on the first occasion he faces the racecourse 's acid test . 
There are flowers on the Poor Boy 's grave , the resting place of a shepherd boy , who committed suicide after losing his master 's sheep about 100 years ago , situated between the Limekilns and Waterhall , and the superstitious say it is an omen that a Newmarket horse will win the Derby . 
If they are right , Pinturischio need not necessarily be the one to oblige . 
In our enthusiasm over this dark 'un , we must not forget about Test Case . 
He proved he was a good horse by winning three of his four races last year . 
Furthermore Pinturischio is not the only string to Murless 's powerful bow . 
Golden Voice , Hunter 's Song , Aurelius and So Cozy are all very nice colts with the scope to train on into fancied Derby candidates . 
I suspect that Lester Piggott has a particularly soft spot for Aurelius , as he has ridden the horse on each of the last three galloping mornings , and each time has had a good ride . 
Great Promise 
The only time that Aurelius ran last year , he showed great promise by running on well to take fourth place behind Beta , Dual and Orbit in the Royal Lodge Stakes at the Ascot Heath meeting transferred to Newbury . 
As he has done so well in his recent work he is more than likely to make a successful reappearance in the Craven Stakes , run over a mile here next Tuesday . 
Alternatively Murless 's interests could be represented by either Magnificat or So Cozy in that event , but as it is Aurelius 's only engagement of the week it seems likely that he will run . 
Both Jack Langley 's Prince Tudor and John Oxley 's Eagle are expected to wait for the Free Handicap on Wednesday , when Prince Tudor will be ridden by his Guineas jockey Bill Rickaby . 
Thus the most dangerous rivals to Aurelius could be Jack Jarvis 's Pinzon , and Dick Hern 's Penhill . 
Pinzon shone in a gallop over seven furlongs with Test Case last week and Penhill must be respected by reason of his having finished fast to run Morgan to half a length in the Coventry Stakes , at Kempton Park on Monday . 
Besides the Wood Ditton Stakes and the Craven Stakes , the Free Handicap could also be an informative classic trial . 
Among those holding the engagement in whom I am interested are Eagle , Prince Tudor , Smuggler 's Joy , and Pardao . 
Obvious Choice 
As Eagle won his gallop from the older Zanzibar last Saturday , he would appear the obvious choice in this race , but neither Smuggler 's Joy or Pardao will be easy to beat . 
Smuggler 's Joy , like Pinzon , has been putting in some good work upsides Test Case , while Pardao shaped well in the work with Sagacity and Good Old Days referred to above . 
Since then Pardao has received an indirect compliment by Good Old Days having run Dual to a neck in the 2,000 Guineas Trial Stakes at Kempton Park . 
Plenty of rain has fallen here lately , so the going should be perfect next week . 
By the end of it we should be in a far better position to anticipate the outcome of both the 2,000 Guineas and the Derby . 
Today 's Nap 
Without Doug Smith having to bring pressure to bear , Crown Imperial ran on well to finish third to the older horse Prince Chamier and Final Problem in a seven-furlong trial on the Limekilns the Monday before Easter . 
Since then the colt has been noted moving very smoothly in all his work . 
Reproduction of the trial form should enable Crown Imperial , who is the nap , to win the Bardolph Plate ( 4-0 ) . 
Cingle , who is under orders for the Round Tower Handicap ( 3-30 ) , is expected to become Jack Langley 's first winner since he took charge of Mr. W. J. Weston-Evans ' horses at Herringswell Manor . 
The four-year-old Cingle has been moving strongly on the regular occasions that he has led work for the classic horse Prince Tudor . 
Jack Jarvis made use of the Railway Land to give some of his team good sharpening-up work over five and six furlongs . 
Test Case ( E. Larkin ) was noted working well when accompanied by Bold Lover over six furlongs . 
Sticky Case , Divine Comedy and Beta were also sent over a similar distance . 
Jaquetta and Saint Sybil had sharpening-up exercise . 
Welsh Rake and Bass Rock covered five furlongs at a sharp pace , and Sybil 's Comb , Fringe , Kilifi and Lion 's Mantle were similarly employed . 
G. Brooke also sharpened up some of his older horses over five furlongs , these being Felix , with Menelek and Court Imperial . 
Quota and Kathie were noted having a similar spin . 
J. F. Watts , H. Thomson Janes and W. Hern also gave their teams exercise on the Railway Land . 
On the Racecourse side B. van Cutsem 's Seam ( E. Smith ) was accompanied by Prince Bula in a nice-pace gallop over seven furlongs . 
Other teams seen on these training grounds were those of G. Barling , H. Cottrill , Reg Day and John Waugh , where work was confined to cantering . 
Latest from Epsom Nightingall May Have a Double 
WALTER NIGHTINGALL and his stable jockey Duncan Keith should follow up yesterday 's success of Release with a double at Windsor , which may be initiated by Duke Toledo in the Round Tower Handicap ( 3-30 ) and completed by King 's Probity , who goes for the Hatch Bridge Handicap ( 4-30 ) . 
Duke Toledo demonstrated that he is an early-season performer by winning over today 's distance , an extended mile at the corresponding meeting last year , when he comfortably beat Indian Rock and Martian , a winner at Hurst Park on Wednesday . 
Following this victory , Walter Nightingall ran the colt at the Epsom Spring Meeting where he was defeated by his burden of 9st. 3lb. and then he failed against some of the best milers in Royal Ascot 's Queen Anne Stakes . 
He had only one other outing , at Kempton Park in soft going , which was probably the cause of his poor showing . 
If Duke Toledo reproduces his form of 12 months ago he should find little difficulty in accounting for today 's opposition . 
The three-year-old , King 's Probity , was a most consistent juvenile , never being out of the first four in six attempts . 
He lost his maiden allowance at Brighton in September , when he easily beat Dolaucothi and should be ready to do the trick here . 
Mambo , from Peter Ashworth 's Treadwell stables , could be the one to give King 's Probity most trouble , as he wound up a promising two-year-old career with a win at Yarmouth , but Nightingall 's charge may just have the edge . 
Cost 6,500gns . 
Staff Ingham 's horses , who usually register early successes , seem to be more backward this year , but the stable can get off the mark in the Cannon Yard Plate ( 3-0 ) with Red Imp , a 1,050 guineas Magic Red colt , who is preferred to Jackie Sirett 's Baba . 
Another winner for Ingham may well be Mr. Bernard Sunley 's Raincourt , who was one of the highest priced yearlings of 1959 , costing 6,500 guineas . 
The son of Court Martial has made only one public appearance in which he showed considerable promise by putting in his best work during the closing stages behind Blue Sash at Headquarters in September . 
This experience should be enough to give Raincourt victory in the Bardolph Plate ( 4-0 ) . 
Fridolanna , who finished fourth to Troilus at Lincoln , will find the one and a half miles of the Upper Sixpenny Handicap ( 5-0 ) to her liking and is fancied to beat Harold Wallington 's Hanbury Lad . 
Prince Midge is Windsor Nap 
CLASSIC contender Prince Midge , making his only appearance prior to the 2,000 Guineas , returns to the scene of his solitary success in four ventures last term at Windsor , where he is napped to win the Robert Wilmot Plate ( 5-0 ) today . 
R. J. Colling has already made his mark with some of his charges , and the Hurst Park winner Welsh Huntress , a galloping companion of Prince Midge , gives a line to the well being of Mr. J. Astor 's colt who is reported one of the most forward of the team . 
THIS CRICKET RECORD IS TOO BAD Pakistan are dreary 
While in Australia , cricket is fairly exploding into life , and in England top players and administrators are loud with pious hopes that the contagion of excitement may spread here , look at what is happening to the first-class game in India . 
In Amritsar , whose name in Sanskrit means " pool of immortality , " Pakistan 's cricketers have just taken a further step toward deathless record-book fame in its dreariest form . 
They drew the 13th match of their Indian tour , just as they had drawn all the other 12 . 
There is significance for England in this dolorous record . 
Given good weather , the coming summer — when the Australians are the visitors — should be a fair one for the first-class game . 
But 1962 may well be critical for by then the new look to be given to the game by the MCC committee charged with that task should begin to take shape . 
And who comes here in 1962 ? 
Pakistan . 
These visitors from a hot climate could deliver a most damaging cold douche on all our good intentions and once more drive the crowds away . 
It is time that they took note of what is happening elsewhere in the Commonwealth of cricket . 
Still aglow 
Back to the comparative calm of his car-hire business in Croydon today , but still glowing mentally , was MARTIN TURNER , whose refereeing of the Barbarians v. Springboks game on Saturday contributed largely to a great robust match which was never allowed to get out of hand . 
Turner ( 39 ) himself a former Barbarian , an Old Whitgiftian and Cambridge Blue , was twice capped by England as a wing three-quarter in his playing days . 
He has been refereeing for the six years since . 
He was appointed to the County panel only this season . 
Of Saturday 's match , he told me : " It was an awfully nice game to handle . 
Too tough ? 
Of course not . 
When you have 30 of the world 's best players on the field , it 's got to be a hard game . 
" Baa-Baas rose to the occasion and were given full credit by the South Africans , who are very nice fellows . 
It was the second time I had refereed them . 
I was in charge of their game against Combined Services on Boxing Day . 
" Of course , every player has an occasional swear at the referee — I know I did when I played . " 
Sales slump 
MRS . 
BARBARA HITCHCOCK , non-golfing wife of Master golfer JIMMY HITCHCOCK , is finding business rather slack in her role of deputy professional at the Ashford Manor , Middlesex , club . 
While her husband is away in South Africa — he plays in the South African open at East London on February 16-18 — she is looking after the shop . 
And with the course closed by rain , she has run into a sales slump . 
She tells me her husband had thought of going to America to compete in the U.S. Masters tournament . 
" But it clashed with the British season and he must be back to play his way into the Ryder Cup team . " 
Hitchcock , who is 30 , has an ambition outside the sport which I find refreshing . 
" I want to earn enough money from golf to enable my father to stop working , " he says . 
It is the kind of ambition many sportsmen shelve when they meet with success . 
Chelsea stand by 
If Huddersfield are knocked out in their FA Cup replay with Barnsley this afternoon , they may be forced to part with their English international left-back , RAMON WILSON . 
Chelsea are waiting on the sidelines ready to make a bid . 
This is no reflection on Chelsea 's 17-year-old back ALAN HARRIS . 
TED DRAKE , Chelsea manager , says of them : " They are both great prospects . 
But Wilson has invaluable experience and he is the enthusiastic type of player who would be a great help to our youngsters . " 
Wilson earned a regular place in the England team last season , but lost it to McNEIL , of Middlesbrough , this season because of a cartilage injury . 
He is 26 , and would welcome a move to First Division football . 
Soccer art 
If England and Fulham captain JOHNNY HAYNES is anxious to avoid any further half-time dressing room wrangles with his club team-mates , he might well take a look at the FA Book for Boys . 
It contains an article by Fulham 's JIMMY HILL , who was strongly critical of Haynes after their match against Chelsea , on the art of captaining a soccer side . 
But when I asked Hill today whether , in his capacity as chairman of the Professional Footballers ' Association , he was prepared to say anything about captains who gesticulate , show their displeasure and sometimes disgust when passes go astray , he refused . 
But , surely , as the man who led the fight — and won — for higher pay , Hill should be just as anxious to ensure " officially " that his Association members conform to the highest code of behaviour — captains included . 
Amateur golf championship to cost more this year By JOHN INGHAM 
The amateur golf championship is to cost more — the entrance fee shooting up from £2 to £4 4s. for the 1961 event , which begins at Turnberry , Scotland , on June 12 . 
Another shock for golfers is that only 250 ( with handicaps of three or better ) will be allowed to compete . 
This restricted entry will be enforced by a ballot , to be held on May 12 . 
Qualifying rounds , played in recent years , have been abandoned , making a limit clause essential . 
If you won the amateur title , where would you put the trophy ? 
The Royal and Ancient insist : " The trophy shall be held by the club from which the winner entered . " 
And not , apparently , on your mantelpiece . 
But if golfers are seeing trophies-before-the-eyes , I should point out that Joe Carr will be defending his title . 
DOWNES FIGHTS RODRIGUEZ By WALTER BARTLEMAN 
Terry Downes , Britain 's middleweight champion , is to meet a cruiser at Wembley on March 7 when he takes on the Californian "Kid " Sixto Rodriguez over ten rounds at 12 stone . 
The 23-year-old Rodriguez who is a former Californian cruiserweight champion , began boxing as a professional in 1956 and has a record that is liberally sprinkled with inside-the-distance victories . 
Downes has made a swift recovery from the nose injuries he received in his unsuccessful world middleweight title fight with Paul Pender in Boston last month . 
Now , in meeting a cruiserweight , he will safeguard any further world championship aspirations . 
Millwall plan cuts — and no manager By HAROLD PALMER 
There is a new outlook at Millwall after Saturday 's home defeat by Oldham . 
Hope of promotion is practically abandoned . 
New plans are being made — and they do not include a replacement for Reg Smith , the manager they sacked three weeks ago . 
The emphasis is likely to be on coaching , with general administration resting in the hands of the present staff . 
Chairman Micky Purser tells me he is preparing the new plan , which he hopes to present to the board within the next two weeks . 
Playing staff is to be reduced from 26 to about 18 , because whatever the Football Combination decide Millwall will not field reserve teams on Saturdays next season . 
No long journeys 
Millwall will also refuse to take part in a reserve competition even in mid-week if long journeys are involved . 
" The competition must be regional to suit us , " says Purser . 
" Otherwise we shall hope to get Queen 's Park Rangers , Charlton , Leyton Orient and Fulham to join us in a new reserve competition . 
We would only need to have a dozen clubs to make the League worthwhile . " 
ARSENAL look like losing Scottish international Jackie Henderson for two or three weeks . 
He has a bad ankle injury . 
I should think this will mean David Herd , out with flu on Saturday , finding inside-left his position when he resumes . 
LEYTON ORIENT take advantage of having a League fixture at Liverpool on Saturday to put in a week 's special training at Southport — with the following week 's Cup tie particularly in mind . 
They took 13 players , Saturday 's team plus Terry McDonald ( outside-left ) and Malcolm Lucas ( wing-half ) North today . 
John Richards returns to the ALDERSHOT team at inside-left for tonight 's second replay of the fourth round FA Cup tie with Stoke at Wolverhampton ( 7.15 ) . 
Richards is back 
Richards was missing from the Aldershot team on Saturday for the first time since he joined them last October . 
With his return Parnell moves back to the wing to the exclusion of Burton . 
Both SOUTHAMPTON and BURNLEY will lack their star inside-rights for tonight 's quarter-final in the Football League Cup at Southampton ( 7.0 ) . 
Irish international Jimmy McIlroy , who has recently had a broken nose , flu and a cut knee , has been advised to rest . 
Southampton 's George O'Brien received a leg injury on Saturday and is replaced by Clifton . 
" My future is here " JIMMY GREAVES HAS TWO AIMS By BERNARD JOY 
Before leaving for Liverpool for training with the England team tonight , Chelsea inside-forward Jimmy Greaves told me : " Barcelona ? 
My immediate future lies with Chelsea and probably my long-term future as well . " 
He then went off to telephone Chelsea to give the assurance to manager Ted Drake . 
Greaves told me : " I am concerned with two things at the moment , helping Chelsea to a respectable position in the table — and that is the aim of every Chelsea player — and getting my own form back . 
" I have no intention of asking for a transfer . 
It is highly probable that I shall be staying with Chelsea for a good while or even indefinitely . " 
Having knocked Real Madrid out of the European Cup , Barcelona are determined to hold on to the prize of supremacy in Spain , and even Europe . 
Nothing hasty 
Free-scoring Greaves — who will be 21 in a fortnight 's time — would fit into their attack and naturalisation is an easy matter for imported foreign stars — like Di Stefano , Kubala and Martinez . 
Italian clubs have also made approaches for Greaves , although they are barred from obtaining new players from abroad until after the 1962 World Cup . 
Greaves comments : " I was told at Stamford Bridge on Saturday that a Barcelona representative was at the match . 
I would be interested , of course , but I would n't be so hasty as a couple of months ago before the new set-up was introduced into English football . " 
Greaves was restless two months ago and the rumour was current that he wanted to leave Chelsea . 
When I asked if his changed attitude meant that he was now happy , he replied quickly : " I 'm not happy . 
I 'm having a bad time and the club are having a bad time . 
You ca n't be happy under those conditions . 
" But I have shelved all ideas of making a move from Chelsea . " 
Three on short list 
The short list of three for the post of coach is Vic Buckingham , the former West Bromwich manager and coach of Ajax , the Dutch champions , Bobby Campbell , coach of Reading , and Tom Docherty , the Arsenal and Scotland wing-half . 
Roy Bentley , the Fulham and former Chelsea player , is not in the list because Chelsea are looking for a man with FA coaching qualifications . 
Buckingham , 45 , steered West Bromwich in nearly carrying off the Cup and League double in 1953-4 . 
A former Spurs defender , he left West Bromwich two seasons ago . 
A big point in his favour is that he struck up a personal friendship with Ted Drake when they were stationed together in the RAF . 
Campbell , a Scottish international winger , played for Chelsea for six seasons before going to Reading in 1954 . 
Dave Dick is fined for 'chase error : Ragd falls From PETER SCOTT : Fontwell Park , Monday 
Crack Epsom jockey Dave Dick was right out of luck here at Fontwell Park this afternoon . 
He had two fancied mounts for Bryan Marshall 's Lambourn stable but Bold Ruler , the first of them , cost him a £15 fine from the Stewards . 
The second , Ragd , tumbled at the first fence in the Horsham Handicap 'Chase . 
Dick 's fine was for carelessness in mistaking a plain fence in Division 1 of the Findon Novices 'Chase for the water jump which followed it . 
The water obstacle had been excluded because of the very heavy going . 
Bold Ruler was in the lead when Dick made his mistake four fences from home . 
Excavation Work Identifies Shrine Chapel WALSINGHAM EVIDENCE 
EXCAVATION of the small building on the north side of the ruined Priory church at Walsingham has shown this to be the remains of the Chapel of the Shrine of Our Lady , visited and described by William of Worcester in 1479 . 
The shrine , a small wooden building , was founded , according to tradition , in A.D. 1061 — though historians have in general placed it a little later — and a generation later the Priory was established to guard the shrine . 
At a later date , the stone chapel was built to cover and protect the original shrine and this building , the " { Novum Opus " of William , is first recorded in his description . 
It was also seen by Erasmus in 1511 . 
For more than a century , since the first test excavation by Canon James Lee Warner , there has been some controversy , both on the nature of his findings and on the date of the various buildings . 
These new excavations , directed by the archaeological consultant to the Ministry of Works , Mr. Charles Green , on behalf of the Walsingham Excavation Committee , were designed to resolve these difficulties . 
Remodelled 
The existing remains of the Priory church have long made it clear that extensive building took place in the 14th century , when the original Norman church was replaced by a great aisled church with a central tower . 
This was again modified early in the 15th century when the east window was remodelled in the Perpendicular style . 
Embedded in the north wall of this church were found remains of the original Norman church and some direct evidence of the central tower which before had been known only from the medieval description . 
The excavations also showed that , shortly after the church itself was rebuilt , the Chapel of the Shrine was erected . 
Further confirmation of its purpose was seen in its layout . 
It lay at an angle to the church , showing that its contents were of more importance even than the church . 
Its massive walls , too , gave evidence of its precious contents . 
Post-Holes 
Of the original wooden shrine there was little direct evidence . 
After the building of the chapel , it is known to have stood above the chapel floor . 
As this floor had been almost completely destroyed , no remains of the shrine could be detected . 
Furthermore , the levelling of the sloping site by the chapel builders had destroyed much of the original surface . 
But indications of a few post-holes and supports which belonged to a period before the chapel , in use until the chapel was built , gave evidence of a contained wooden building , though their remnants were not sufficient to determine its exact size and plan . 
This levelling had another , unexpected , result . 
It had brought close to the surface an Anglo-Saxon cemetery of much earlier date and these graves were seen to have been cut through and destroyed by the chapel builders . 
Pagan Site ? 
With them occurred a series of post-holes of similar date , forming a pattern not closely related to the later buildings . 
The date and nature of these suggest the possibility of an early pagan Saxon shrine on this site . 
It is well known that early Christian priests often built their new churches on pagan sites , thus hallowing the temple sites of the heathen deities . 
A strong " treasure house " or sacristy had later been added to the east end of the chapel . 
A great porch at the west end , of still later date , was probably being built in 1511 when Erasmus described the chapel as " unfinished . " 
In the centre of the chapel was a great stone-built tomb , probably that of Sir Bartholomew Burghersh , who died in 1369 , and a smaller stone coffin was perhaps of the last canon in charge before the Dissolution in 1539 . 
Second Pilot Vessel Launched at Lowestoft 
THE PILOT VESSEL Preceder , second of two sister ships which Brooke Marine are building for Trinity House , was launched at Lowestoft yesterday by Mrs. Galpin , wife of Capt. R. J. Galpin , an Elder Brother of the Corporation . 
Among the launching party were Field-Marshal Sir Claude Auchinleck , chairman of Dowsett Holdings , the parent company of Brooke Marine , Mr. H. L. Dowsett , chairman of Brooke Marine , and Capt. D. Mansfield , superintendent pilot at Harwich . 
Before being launched the ship was blessed by the Rector of Lowestoft ( the Rev. W. J. Westwood ) . 
The Preceder , sister ship to Patrol , which was launched in June , is 39 feet long with a beam of 24 feet and a draught of ten feet five inches . 
She is powered by two six-cylinder Lister engines which develop 495 b.h.p. driving a single screw , and she has a designed speed of just under 13 knots . 
She will be equipped with radar and echo sounder , a combined A.M.S.M.VHF set , and medium frequency radio telephone . 
Accommodation will be provided for a crew of 20 with Pullman-type bunks for 12 pilots , and she will carry two boarding boats and inflatable life rafts . 
When completed in December she will take up duties as a tender between Harwich and the pilot cutter on station at the Sunk , where she will speed up the service considerably , as she is to replace a nine-knot ship . 
Nine Per Cent . 
Drop in Farm Incomes 
FARM INCOMES in England and Wales in 1959 fell by nearly nine per cent . 
on the previous year , according to a booklet published yesterday by the National Farmers ' Union . 
Figures given in the booklet , based on the union 's farm accounts scheme , show that except for cereal growers , the long dry summer of 1959 was not generally favourable to farmers . 
In particular , the shortage of grazing caused by drought necessitated heavy purchases of feeding stuffs . 
Record cereal crops largely account for an increase of nearly nine per cent . 
in the earnings of the specialist arable farms , which the previous year fell by about 10 per cent . 
Dairy Farms 
According to the booklet , the livestock sector fared worse than any other in 1959 , as it had in 1958 . 
A fall of 17 per cent . 
that year was followed by a reduction of 18 per cent . 
in 1959 . 
On mixed livestock farms , incomes fell by over 11 per cent . 
On dairy farms and mixed dairy farms , profits fell by more than 10 per cent . 
A slight increase in revenue was " substantially outweighed " by heavy increases in feeding stuff expenditure . 
The booklet also says that the substantial increase in egg output in 1959 led to a reduction in price , and as a result of a decline in income , and an increase in expenditure , the profits of specialist egg producers fell by over 58 per cent . 
Profits on mixed farms where egg production was the largest single enterprise fell by over seven per cent . 
The results , says the booklet , are based on sample accounts of 3709 farms whose year-ending date fell between June 1st , 1959 , and May 31st , 1960 . 
West Raynham Airman Sent for Trial 
PATRICK JOSEPH MALONEY ( 27 ) , of 36 , Airmen 's Married Quarters , R.A.F. West Raynham , was committed to Quarter Sessions at Fakenham Court yesterday on a charge of breaking and entering a lock-up coffee bar in Bridge Street , Fakenham , between August 10th and 11th and stealing a quantity of sweets , chocolates , and money , to a total value of £4 18s. 8 1/2d . 
Mr. Brian John Bedford , a service engineer , of 28 , Grange Road , Bushey , Hertfordshire , said he was acting manager of the coffee bar . 
When he went to it one morning , the first thing he noticed was that the shelf on which chocolates and sweets were placed , was bare . 
He found that the rear door of the premises had been forced . 
Green Fibres 
P.C. A. D. Willsher said that he examined the coffee bar and found several green fibres in a door post and also on two crates of soft drinks . 
Later Maloney produced the clothing he had been wearing the previous day and this included a green wool sweater . 
Maloney was cautioned and he said , " If you come round to my house at 4.30 I will give you the stuff . " 
He later produced the sweets and chocolates in a cardboard box from his car and then went into the house and gave them two piggy banks which contained 18s. 7 1/2d. in cash saying , " That is the money I took . " 
In a statement to P.C. Willsher , Maloney said , " I had a row with my wife . 
I lost my head and went on the booze . 
I would not have done it if I had not had so much to drink . " 
He was sorry for the inconvenience he had caused the coffee bar manager . 
In court Maloney said he would like to confirm what he had said in his statement and would like to add that he was thoroughly ashamed of the whole business . 
He was granted bail . 
Felmingham Funeral of Mrs. E. T. Lawrence 
The funeral of Mrs. Lucy May Lawrence , wife of Mr. Ernest Thomas Lawrence , of 1 , Heath View , Felmingham , took place at St. Andrew 's Church , Felmingham . 
The Assistant Curate of North Walsham , the Rev. Michael Pavey , officiated , assisted by the superintendent minister of the North Walsham Methodist Circuit , the Rev. Charles Staden . 
Born at Worstead 77 years ago , Mrs. Lawrence was a land worker throughout the first world war and received a diploma from the Minister of Agriculture . 
For 17 years she was a National Savings collector in the parish . 
Mrs. Lawrence leaves her husband , two sons and two daughters . 
Family mourners were : the widower ; Mr. and Mrs. G. Foulger , Mr. and Mrs. E. Amies , Mr. E. T. Lawrence , jun. , Mr. and Mrs. A. Lawrence , Mr. and Mrs. P. Cross , Mr. and Mrs. P. Bindley , Mrs. P. Lester , Mr. and Mrs. P. Lawrence , Mr. J. Foulger , Mr. B. Foulger , Mr. R. Amies , Mr. and Mrs. G. Hicks , Mr. and Mrs. F. J. Hicks , Mr. T. Hicks , Mr. and Mrs. F. Hicks , Mr. T. Hicks , Mrs. D. Williams , Miss S. Cox , Miss B. Tyrrell , Mr. R. Baker , Mrs. A. Hicks , Mrs. W. Lane and Mr. P. Cross , jun . 
Mrs. E. T. Lawrence , jun. , and Mr. A. Hicks were unable to attend . 
The North Norfolk Constituency Labour Party was represented . 
THEFT BY ROLLS ROYCE VAN MAN 
A police constable was cycling on his beat at Foulsham when he saw a young man removing piping from huts on the derelict airfield , near the village , Reepham magistrates were told yesterday . 
Anthony Bower ( 21 ) , a carpenter , of Rake 's Progress , Guestwick , pleaded guilty to stealing asbestos guttering , pipe and outlets valued at £2 9s. 2d. , belonging to the Air Ministry . 
He was fined £5 after admitting that he used a Rolls-Royce van without insurance . 
Inspector John Kenny , prosecuting , said that P.C. James Dent saw Bower removing the guttering . 
Nearby stood Bower 's Rolls-Royce van with some guttering inside . 
Derelict Cottage 
In a statement to the police Bower was alleged to have said that he had got possession of a derelict cottage in Guestwick rent free and intended to use the guttering for repairs . 
The inspector said defendant had been very helpful to the police . 
When the chairman , the Hon. Mrs. Barclay , asked Bower if he would accept probation , Bower asked what was the alternative . 
He was told it might be a fine . 
Bower : How much would the fine be ? — Mrs. Barclay : We do n't know . 
Bower : All right . 
I will accept probation . 
He was put on probation for 12 months . 
VERY UNSATISFACTORY MARRIAGE , COURT TOLD 
HOW PEOPLE thought they could build a happy married life when their sole object , whenever they had enough money , was to separate and spend the evening in different public-houses was difficult to imagine , said Judge Carey Evans , sitting as Commissioner for Divorce , at Norwich Divorce Court yesterday . 
He granted a decree nisi to Mr. Arthur George Boyce , of 29 , Green Lane Estate , Fakenham , on the grounds of his wife 's desertion and her adultery with an unknown man . 
He exercised his discretion in favour of the husband 's admitted adultery . 
The wife , Mrs. Nancy Audrey Boyce , of 9 , Green Lane Estate , Fakenham , denied her husband 's allegations and alleged cruelty , desertion and adultery on his part . 
COURT QUIZ ON IDENTITY METHODS 
Police methods of holding identity parades were questioned in a Darlington court today by Mr. Colin Black , defending solicitor for 28-year-old unemployed labourer , James Rudd Fenwick of Estoril Road , Darlington . 
Det.-Con. Henry Hammond gave evidence that he and Mr. James Hughes , another witness in the case , had been standing in Northgate on Sunday , October 8 . 
Mr. Hughes had recognised a man who had asked D.C. Hammond for a light . 
Cross-examination 
Cross-examining , Mr. Black asked : " Did you suggest to Mr. Hughes that this could be the man ? " — " No . " 
"Why were you in Northgate ? " — " We were there with a view to identifying the defendant . 
I had asked Mr. Hughes to come along . " 
"Ah , is this the way to carry out an identity parade ? " 
Mr. Stanley Walton , prosecuting , stood up . 
" I object . 
It was not an identity parade . " 
Question reframed 
Mr. Black : " I 'll reframe the question . 
You have been trained in methods of identity parade . 
Is this the correct way ? " — " There is no strict way . " 
"You refuse to give a straight answer ? " — " No , sir . 
I answered your question . " 
Mr. Walton rose again : " He has said there is no strict way . " 
Mr. Black : " Let me reframe again . 
Is there any recommended method ? " — " Yes , when applicable . " 
"This was n't such a case ? " — " No . " 
"Why were you particularly in Northgate ? " — " I knew the defendant was coming along . 
Some member of the force had asked him to come to the police station . " 
"Had Hughes been shown photographs of the defendant ? " — " Yes . " 
"And other men ? " — " Yes . " 
Sent for trial 
Fenwick was sent for trial to the next Durham Quarter Sessions on charges of taking a car without the owner 's consent , stealing a car radio and driving while disqualified . 
Bail was allowed and a defence certificate granted . 
Through Mr. Black , Fenwick denied all three charges and reserved his defence . 
When he elected to go for trial on a third count , a fourth case of driving while uninsured was adjourned { 6sine die . 
When Fenwick arrived at the court — 20 minutes late — Mr. Black apologised for him . 
" He has two children and his wife is expecting another , " he said . 
" He has had to arrange for his mother-in-law to come in before he could come out . " 
Fenwick was on his way to court when police were sent to look for him . 
Parked car 
Darlington company director Mr. Brian Neasham said he had parked the company 's car on waste ground next to their Bowes Street premises . 
This was on October 4 . 
When he returned an hour later the car was gone . 
It was returned to him by Middlesbrough police the next day . 
" It was n't damaged in any way , but the radio was missing . " 
Outlining the case , Mr. Walton said : " In fairness to the defendant he was n't with the car when it was found abandoned . " 
Mr. Hughes , a garagehand at Neasham 's said he was sweeping the yard when a man he recognised as the defendant came to the gate . 
He said he was wanting a van or something , and Mr. Hughes said he would have to see Mr. Burley , the commercial manager . 
The defendant said he was waiting for his brother , waited some time and then went . 
Later he returned . 
When he returned , said Mr. Hughes , " I pointed Mr. Burley out to him . " 
Later Mr. Hughes saw that the car had gone . 
Cross examined by Mr. Black , Mr. Hughes agreed that he had never seen the man before , and had only seen him once since . 
He was certain that the defendant was the same man . 
" He was wearing a light fawn coloured mac and a greyish flat cap , " said Mr. Hughes . 
But he agreed : " I was n't taking much notice of the man . 
I was n't suspicious or anything . " 
When he saw Fenwick on the Sunday he was wearing " a suit of a khaki drill colour . " 
Heard car 
Mr. Kenneth Burley could not give a positive identification of anyone in court . 
But he had seen a man at the gate . 
Said Mr. Burley : " He was supposed to be waiting for his brother and interested in a van . " 
Objected Mr. Black : " Surely that 's hearsay ? " 
Retorted Mr. Walton : " If you do n't want it , we 'll miss it out . " 
Mr. Burley said he heard the engine of Mr. Neasham 's car start up and stall twice . 
He realised that it was not one of their drivers or Mr. Neasham in the car , and ran towards it . 
It moved off across the waste ground towards Brunswick Street . 
" I ran after the car as it turned into Brunswick Street . 
The driver looked back and I could see it was the same man who had stood at the gate . 
He was wearing a light coloured raincoat and a cloth cap . " 
At Middlesbrough 
Middlesbrough welder Mr. Alan Breckon , of Snowdon Street told the court he was in Middlesbrough on the corner of Sussex Street and Richmond Street on the night of October 4 . 
A man came out of a cafe and asked him the way to Darlington , and then to Stockton . 
He recognised the man as the defendant . 
The man got into a car about 15 yards away and drove off . 
It was a green Ford Consul , he said . 
Cross examined he said : " It was an ordinary green Ford Consul with a hard top — like an ordinary saloon . 
It was definitely not a convertible . " 
He was sure it was a Consul and not a Zephyr . 
The man was wearing " a greyish coloured jacket , no raincoat . " 
There was a street lamp on the other side of the road about 24 feet away . 
On duty 
Re-examined by Mr. Walton he said he could not tell the difference between a Consul and a Zephyr and this car " was going away fast . " 
Middlesbrough policeman Colin Redman said he was on duty in Gosford Street walking towards Sussex Street when he saw a green Ford Zephyr parked outside a cafe . 
" Before I came on duty I had received information that made me interested in this car . " 
When it drove towards him with headlights full on , he put up his hand and flashed his torch . 
The driver ignored the signal and he had to jump out of the way . 
He recognised the defendant as the driver . 
He was wearing " a corduroy flat cap , sports jacket and dark trousers . " 
Cross examined he said he was about 20 yards from the man when he got into the car . 
It was definitely a convertible . 
The street lighting was sulphur lights on standards about 30 feet high . 
At Northgate 
He agreed with Mr. Black that sulphur lighting sometimes cast a peculiar colour on people 's faces , but " the cafe strip lighting was also on and the car was outside . " 
The nearest light was " about six feet in front of the car . " 
Was he sure of that , asked Mr. Black . 
" I 'm fairly sure of my answer . " 
"So the last witness must be wrong if he says 24 feet ? " went on Mr. Black . 
— " Yes . " 
D. C. Hammond said the defendant had asked him for a light in Northgate on the Sunday . 
He had been with Mr. Hughes in Northgate . 
The defendant had been wearing " a green checked suit . " 
Reserved defence 
When charged at the police office with taking without consent , Fenwick said : "I 've never been anywhere near the place ( Neasham ) " . 
He said he was in Middlesbrough on the Wednesday and came back by taxi about midnight . 
" I had a girl to meet , but I went on the bus about six o'clock . 
I did n't take any car . " 
Charged with the other offences later he made no reply . 
Durham policeman John Middlemiss said Fenwick had been convicted of taking without consent , driving while disqualified , using an uninsured vehicle , and using obscene language at a Durham court in 1956 . 
He had then been banned from driving for ten years . 
When the charges were read to him in court , through Mr. Black , Fenwick said : " I plead " Not Guilty " and reserve my defence . " 
LADY CHAYTOR FINED £50 AND BANNED 
Lady Patricia Chaytor — well-known as a horse lover — was fined £50 and banned from driving for six months at Bishop Auckland today following a collision involving two National Hunt jockeys . 
The wife of Sir William Chaytor , she lives in the 50-roomed Witton Castle in the picturesque village of Witton-le-Wear . 
DENIED CHARGE 
On the advice of her solicitor Lady Chaytor , who denied a charge of dangerous driving , did not go into the witness box . 
Jerry Scott ( last year 's winner of the Grand National ) and his jockey friend Pat McCarron , gave evidence for the prosecution . 
" These two men almost ended up in the West Auckland Cemetery — in more senses than one , " said Mr. H. Hewitt , prosecuting . 
While driving towards Darlington through West Auckland they saw another car approaching — on their side of the road . 
QUICK THINKING 
"Only the quick thinking of Pat saved a head-on collision , " Scott told the court . 
He said that as the other car drew near McCarron swung their car sharply to the other side of the road . 
" But there was still a slight collision and the other car drove on . 
I could not repeat what I said then ! " 
The two jockeys in Scott 's car turned around using the open gates of the cemetery and chased after the other car . 
They finally caught up with it at West Auckland . 
" I kept my eye on it from the moment it smashed into us , " Scott said . 
" When I got out of my car — if you will excuse the expression — I said to the woman driver , " What the hell are you doing ? " 
But she did not reply . " 
SLIGHT DAMAGE 
PC John Peacock said that when he arrived he found some slight damage on the nearside of Lady Chaytor 's car . 
She refused to make a statement , he said , and told him : " I have never had an accident before , and I was never on the wrong side of the road . " 
When told about proceedings being taken she was alleged to have said , " You can do what you like . " 
For Lady Chaytor , Mr. N. Foster , of Darlington , said that she did not think that bringing his client into the witness-box would be of any assistance " Because she can not recollect this incident . " 
He said she had been driving for 25 years and had no previous convictions . 
RECEIVED DRUGS 
"She stoutly denies this charge and she has not the slightest recollection of this accident . " 
Two days before this , he said , Lady Chaytor had been in hospital for observation and during that time had received drugs , some of which contained an element of pheno-barbitone . 
" The only conclusion she can come to regarding this accident is that when it happened she was suffering from drowsiness as a result of the drugs which had been given to her . " 
YOUTHS STOLE PETROL FROM PARKED CAR 
A £200 motor-cycle bought to keep a 16-year-old youth out of trouble landed him in a court before the first hire-purchase payment was due . 
Speaking on behalf of her son before a Darlington court today a working mother said that " his heart had been so set on a motor-bike " that she had paid a £50 deposit so that he could have one for his birthday . 
She added that she had not yet begun to pay the balance at the rate of £2 10s a week . 
SAID HE WOULD HELP 
Asked by the chairman of the Bench , Mr. J. Hemingway , how much her son paid for his keep out of the £3 18s he had just begun to earn , she replied : " I let him keep it for himself ; he has had to pay for tax and insurance but said he would help out with the payments . " 
The youth appeared with another motor-cyclist , Henry Ernest Chapman ( 19 ) , of Railway Cottages , Hurworth Place , on a joint charge of stealing petrol . 
They pleaded guilty . 
Prosecuting , Chief-Insp. James Richardson said that two policemen found Chapman and the youth hiding in a yard off Skinner-gate on the evening of October 30 . 
Asked what they were doing they said they were looking for a motor-cycle , but when further questioned , Chapman said : " O.K. They 've found us out . " 
WARWICK RACECOURSE IS STILL IN THE RED 
WARWICK Racecourse is still in the red and is still showing a loss , said Racecourse Committee chairman Alderman Guy Nelson at the July meeting of Warwick Town Council . 
Because of that , the committee had refused to increase prize money when asked to do so by the Jockey Club . 
Alderman Nelson was replying to two questions from members of the council , who asked why the committee had not carried out the Jockey Club 's request . 
Councillor Fred Vittle said he thought that owners and trainers would stop running their horses at Warwick if the prize money was not increased . 
POSTPONED 
Councillor Fred Walters asked why the committee had refused the increase before it found out about other racecourses . 
" Is our prize money as high as theirs ? " he asked . 
Alderman Nelson said the committee had only said that the increase should be postponed until a decision on betting levy contributions to racecourse executives had been received . 
" We shall still get plenty of horses . 
The horses that come to Warwick do not come for the prize money , but for the public to bet on , " he added . 
Extensions at Chesford Grange will cost £50,000 
BETTER known to Birmingham , Coventry and Leamington connoisseurs for the excellence of its food and wines , but known by guests from all parts of the country , Chesford Grange Hotel will soon have an additional 21 luxurious modern bedrooms and a conference hall seating 200 delegates or 120 diners . 
The new bedrooms , each of which will have its own private bath or shower , are all on the first floor , over the new conference hall , which has its own entrance , bar , cloakrooms , and a laid dance-floor . 
The new hall , to be called the Lilac Room , can be used either separately or in conjunction with the main hall , and is a very valuable extension of the already comprehensive conference facilities . 
CLEAN AND MODERN 
The new structure , which links the hotel to the ballroom , has a white rendered finish to the ground floor and timber facings to the first floor . 
The conference hall entrance is faced with green slate , and the architectural treatment of the new building is clean and modern , but still blends with the existing traditional architecture of the older buildings it links . 
The work , which includes complete modernisation of the entire drainage system , will cost about £50,000 and will be completed by Christmas of this year . 
Main contractors are Turriff Construction ( Warwick ) Ltd. , the well-known Warwick and London builders . 
Unemployment decrease 
" The number of unemployed has fallen during the past three months , " said Miss N. L. Munton , manager of the Leamington and Warwick Employment Exchange , at a meeting of the Leamington and South Warwickshire Local Employment Committee held under the chairmanship of Miss L. I. Bell , J.P . 
The percentage for the area covered by this committee ( Leamington , Warwick , Stratford and Southam ) is just under .5 compared with .8 for the Midland Region and 1.2 for the country as a whole . 
There are varied vacancies for both men and women , for the latter especially in shops , cafes , hotels and domestic work , as well as nursing and electrical work . 
Council questions on Warwick 's overdraft 
IF Warwick Town Council 's bank overdraft stopped , would all the capital works undertaken by the council come to an end ? asked Councillor Fred Walters at the July meeting of the council . 
And , if that happened , would council house rents be affected ? 
Councillor Walters was speaking on a Finance Committee recommendation that the council should increase its overdraft to £250,000 . 
The proposal was approved . 
He said he had been surprised that the chairman of the committee had not made a statement to the council , and added that he did not think it necessary to have such a large overdraft for a town of Warwick 's size . 
WAS IT WISE ? 
Before the chairman of the Finance Committee had chance to reply , Councillor Fred Vittle asked if it was wise to increase the overdraft during the national economic crisis . 
Councillor E. Lloyd-Averns Finance Committee chairman , said the overdraft was not a large one , as many towns smaller than Warwick had greater overdraft facilities . 
" Its main purpose is to act as a buffer , " he said . 
" In so far as council house rents are concerned , they are run on a completely different basis and can not possibly be affected . " 
Warwick and scheme for joint crematorium 
At a special meeting , Warwick General Purposes Committee instructed the Crematorium Sub-Committee to oppose the proposals to build a crematorium near the junction of the Banbury and Heathcote roads . 
The sub-committee will press for the crematorium to be built on the original site — by Leamington 's Brunswick Street cemetery . 
Warwick Town Council originally decided to build its own crematorium , but in April last year it abandoned the idea and entered into a joint scheme with Leamington Town Council and Warwick Rural District Council . 
After representatives of the councils had met it was decided to build the crematorium near Leamington cemetery . 
£10,000 EXTRA 
After representatives of the firm of architects which built the Medway Crematorium at Chatham had inspected five possible sites , within Warwick and Leamington and Warwick rural district , they recommended the site on rising ground at the junction of the Banbury and Heathcote roads . 
The size of the site is 15 acres . 
The chairman of Warwick Estates Committee , Alderman H. J. Ansell , outlined the history of the proposed crematorium at the special meeting of the General Purposes Committee . 
He said his committee decided against the Heathcote Road site because of the extra cost — about £10,000 . 
PIECEMEAL 
Chairman of the new Planning and Development Committee , Councillor H. R. C. Walden , said it would be piecemeal development for the Heathcote area . 
He said that would be one of the few areas that Warwick could develop if the Green Belt inquiry proved successful and it was wrong to spoil it by building the crematorium . 
Councillor Leo Howlett said the eventual cost was likely to be about £125,000 , of which Warwick would have to pay one fifth . 
" If we have got £25,000 to spend let's spend it on the living , " he said . 
Maiden speech 
Councillor Donald Round made his first speech at a council meeting when he asked the chairman of the Housing Committee what was being done about the pavements and street lighting at Spinney Hill , Warwick . 
Councillor W. L. Tarver , the chairman of the Housing Committee , said that the pavements and street lighting should be installed within the next few months . 
A SILVER "THANK YOU " 
To mark his services to the league — and also his silver wedding — Mr. Walter Leslie , secretary of Warwick Hospital League of Friends , has been presented with a pair of silver candlesticks . 
The presentation took place in the hospital 's new recreation hall — which Mr. Leslie helped to get . 
Warwick Mayor to campaign for by-pass 
ALTHOUGH proposed more than 25 years ago , it would be at least four years before anything was done about the Warwick by-pass , said the Mayor of Warwick ( Alderman James McGrouther ) at a special meeting of Warwick General Purposes Committee . 
He told the committee that he was going to write to the Minister of Transport asking if he would receive a deputation from the council . 
To strengthen his case , said the Mayor , he would approach transport federations and commission films of local traffic congestion . 
He asked the Press for support and said he would take all press cuttings he could find relating to the traffic conditions in the town . 
Councillor Fred Walters , leader of the Socialist group , said the council had tried to do several small things in an effort to alleviate the traffic congestion . 
" Each time they have been refused by people who have never been to Warwick , " he added . 
Council 's action on smokeless zones Alderman says : " We have got to be realists " 
IN A FRANK speech to the delegates at the annual meeting of the Warwickshire Clean Air Council at Leamington , Alderman E. H. Fryer told them the reasons why Leamington Town Council had postponed its smokeless zones programme . 
But he promised that Leamington would not hang back when there were sufficient supplies of smokeless fuels available . 
Welcoming the delegates on behalf of the Mayor ( Councillor Miss Christine Ledger ) , who was attending the Royal garden party at Buckingham Palace , Alderman Fryer said he had been against smoke control for Leamington right from the word go . 
MUST BE REALISTS 
"Criticism was levelled at us for going back on what we had started to do , but we have got to be realists . 
If you are going to change the Englishman 's way of life you can not do it in a hurry , " he said . 
" It must be done very gradually indeed . 
In other words , one must make haste slowly . 
" The zones that were revoked covered a large area in which a lot of old people lived . 
It was on their behalf , mainly , that the programme was revoked . 
" TEMPERAMENTAL 
" You yourselves said there were insufficient supplies of smokeless fuel and so coke must be used . 
Coke is temperamental ; it can make a good fire , or it can be a most depressing sight . 
" Unless we can give people a similar fuel to coal , at a similar price , then we are up against the wall . 
These are the reasons why the smoke control zones in Leamington were rejected . 
" When smokeless fuel is produced in abundance , and when it is a reasonable price , I can assure you that Leamington Spa will not hang back , " added Alderman Fryer . 
DOCTOR 'S LETTER 
At the quarterly meeting of the council , held at Sutton Coldfield , the vice-chairman of the council , Councillor Robert Loosley , of Coventry , claimed that Councillor Dr. H. Gibbons Ward , of Leamington , had started the campaign against the smoke control zones in Leamington by writing to the local Press . 
He asked the council to deplore the doctor 's action . 
At the annual meeting , Dr. Gibbons Ward said unfortunately he had not been at the Sutton Coldfield meeting and he wished to " put two or three things right . " 
"MY PRIVILEGE " 
" I did not start the campaign by writing to the local Press . 
I do not think it is the wish of this council that any member shall not at any time disagree with decisions of the council . 
" I should have thought that one would have been able to express an opinion without being rebuked . 
It is my privilege to differ from the council at any time , " he added . 
Later , Councillor Loosley said : " I feel it is wrong for the people of this council to get up at another meeting and decry our efforts . 
It is the duty of a member of this council to support these decisions outside the council . 
If not , at least they can keep quiet . " 
RADFORD SEMELE RAISES £1,000 
ALTHOUGH formed only 18 months ago , Radford Semele Playing Field Committee has raised £1,000 towards amenities for the village play field . 
After buying playground equipment , the committee still has a credit balance of £736 , it was reported at the July meeting . 
The committee agreed that it would push ahead as fast as possible with fund raising schemes to make the playing field one of the finest in Warwickshire . 
Committee chairman Mr. P. Bramhall called for full village support in the venture . 
Allotment land should be a playground , council told 
LAND originally set aside for allotments on the Percy Estate , Warwick , would be very suitable for a children 's playground , said Councillor Mrs. E. A. Brown at the July meeting of Warwick Town Council . 
" Land behind the garages of Mill Road and Pattens Road was originally allocated for allotments , but as the land has not yet been allocated to the Allotments Committee could it be used for a children 's playground ? 
I know it would not help all the children , but it would help some , " she said . 
Councillor W. L. Tarver , Housing Committee chairman , said the borough surveyor was looking into the playgrounds problem . 
If any question of urgency arose during the school holiday , then the surveyor and the mayor could get together to decide what was best , he added . 
NEW OFFICER 
A Midland woman is to be commissioned as a Church Army officer at a ceremony in London next week . 
At 18 , Diana has met the Queen , studies in Paris , visits U S A and SHE 'S TO BE A DEBUTANTE AT VERSAILLES by William Burgess 
SHE was a child when her father took her name and her picture as the trademark of a business which today has branches across two continents . 
She is the symbol of a romance of industry who herself is fast becoming one of its most efficient practitioners . 
She is Miss Diana Cowpe , 18-year-old daughter of textile tycoon Mr Eric Cowpe , of Thornton Cleveleys and Anchorsholme , and the glittering apex of her young career to date will be her " coming out " celebration at the highlight of the French social season , the debutantes ' ball at the Palace of Versailles . 
The Cowpe family came to live here seven years ago from Burnley , where blossomed the business which today supplies the demands of customers in over 60 different countries . 
Eric Cowpe , debonair industrialist , is the managing director of the Diana Cowpe Organisation engaged in the production of bedspreads , bath mats , toilet sets , dressing gowns , housecoats , beach wear and candlewick by the yard . 
And at the heart of it is the golden girl a fluent linguist , an expert in public relations , who is fast making herself conversant with every branch of the industry . 
Today the organisation has over 2,000 employees and uses seven mills . 
In 1960 the company further extended its interests by becoming the United Kingdom distributors for Cannon Mills , who are the world 's largest manufacturers of household textiles . 
In maintaining his global contacts , Mr Cowpe travels on an average 60,000 miles a year , mostly by air . 
His Fleetwood office , a spot of elegance in inelegant surroundings , buzzes with ideas and amiability and remarkable for a high-powered executive , he has not a single ulcer ! 
Her friends 
Diana is currently enrolled at { L'Acade2mie , 1,000 guinea-a-term plus finishing school in Paris , where her schoolmates include Miss Charlotte Ford , 19-year-old daughter of car king Henry Ford 2 , and Miss Singer , daughter of the president of the Singer Sewing Machine firm , whose wedding incidentally she will soon be attending in New York . 
In a few weeks ' time Miss Singer and a party will be coming to stay with the Cowpes in Norbreck-road . 
Diana who will be 19 in May , is staying with { La Comtesse de la Forest Divonne , in the { Avenue de Wagram , while she is attending { L'Academie , which is associated with the famed Maxim . 
A finishing school { 6par excellence , its curriculum ranges over all aspects of French culture . 
The programme 
Studies at the Sorbonne include acquaintance with the best of French civilisation , from history to art , architecture to { 6haute couture , from the Louvre to the house of Dior , from the drama to the opera . 
Not forgetting , of course , { la cuisine . 
For the ball at Versailles , there will be a dress from Dior and an escort from a noted French family . 
This will be a night of nights , with representatives of the government and leaders of French society as well as a dazzling display of the world of fashion . 
Ahead lie dates in New York for the Singer wedding , San Francisco , England , including the Royal Enclosure at Ascot , and a spell in Madrid . 
Diana was educated originally at Roedean at Brighton , and even at an early age was already an experienced traveller . 
No playgirl , despite the glitter and the globe-trotting , she has kept a shrewd eye on the family business , worked hard both at home and abroad at public relations . 
At the Earl 's Court Exhibition , where the company was represented , she was presented to the Queen , and there was an informal chat . 
The incident was later seen on television , and father records that his daughter was a good deal more composed than he was . 
A photograph of this occupies pride of place on his desk in the Fleetwood office . 
" Since she was very young , " says her proud father , " she has always taken a great interest in the business , and that is why I chose her for the company 's trade name . 
I have confidence in her ability . 
A great girl ! " 
In Switzerland 
After Roedean , she went to another school at Neuchatel in Switzerland has already visited the United States and studied production in the mills of the " Deep South . " 
Last November Mr Cowpe had further proof of his daughter 's versatility when she won golden opinions for her performance in " Invitation to Saturn , " a new play by Lady Aylwen , which was presented at the Scala in London in aid of the Greater London Fund for the Blind . 
Small wonder that father has a wealth of photographs of his daughter , among which the one reproduced on this page takes pride of place . 
It was taken by Stara , noted French photographer of Paris and Cannes , whose pupils included the late great English photographer Baron . 
Diana Cowpe is a young lady on her way , and an example of beauty and brains in this modern age . 
Spoke about colour bar 
" WE are trying to bring about equal rights for all civilised men , " said the Rev E. Thornley , the northern area secretary for the Universities ' Mission to Central Africa , when he spoke to members of the St Chad 's Church of England Men 's Society on Monday . 
Mr Thornley asked , " What is the colour bar ? " 
He said that there were many forms . 
The first was a local colour bar , such as was found in the Union of South Africa and which was known as apartheid . 
Mr Thornley said that apartheid was revolting , and although the basis of it was theology it was rank bad theology . 
Another type of colour bar was the economic form which existed in the Federation and which also formed the basis for the colour bar in the United States . 
The third form was the social colour bar which , said Mr Thornley , was pretty well universal . 
" Our mission is striving to create a multi-racial community where all may enjoy fundamental rights and responsibilities , and where a man 's status and opportunities depend not on the colour of his skin but on his character and competence , " he added . 
Mr S. Holden , chairman , presided and Mr F. Shaw thanked Mr Thornley . 
Inspiration in a garage A PEN picture of Bispham artist Miss Kate Smith by MAUREEN McCONVILLE 
FROM the outside , and on first glance , the garage at 19 , Stainforth-avenue , Bispham , looks like any other garage . 
But there the resemblance abruptly and completely ends . 
Inside , in an atmosphere pungent with linseed oil and turpentine , it is furnished for use with fluorescent lighting supplementing the daylight from the large windows , and for comfort with thick matting on the floor , curtains and chairs . 
Inside , the ordered chaos of artistic activity prevails . 
Centrepiece 
Even to the uninitiated , this building , masquerading as an ordinary suburban garage , is a working artist 's studio . 
The working artist to whom it belongs is Kate Smith , three of whose pictures have been hung as the centrepiece of the Lancashire Art Exhibition , which opened at the Harris Gallery , Preston , on Wednesday . 
Miss Smith came to Blackpool from the Midlands in April last year and this is the first time she has exhibited in Lancashire . 
It is not , by a long way , her first experience of exhibiting , for Miss Smith has been painting most of her life , striving to express in oils on hardboard the ideas that come too fast for her to cope with . 
" Imaginative " 
She has little of the exhibitionism that people associate with artists . 
Instead of producing a facile flow of ideas about artistic theory and personal aims , she gropes for words to express her sense of the seriousness of painting . 
She knows what she believes and feels about art , but she handles language with something less than the complete assurance with which she handles paint . 
Considering whether she qualified as a " modern " artist or not , she told me : " I 'm just an imaginative painter , really . " 
This modest personal appraisal needs elaboration . 
Bible-inspired 
Many of Miss Smith 's paintings are inspired by incidents in the New Testament and express divine and human qualities in the life of God-made Man . 
The expression is achieved by a heavy reliance on symbolism , which simplifies , concentrates and distorts reality to make the symbolism clear and powerful . 
The result is far from traditional , though it has nothing of the shock value of , say , action painters and other anti-humanists . 
Striking 
In fact , the human feeling in her paintings is one of their most striking aspects and one which has gained her adherents in unexpected quarters . 
Coming to Blackpool has influenced her choice of subject to some extent , though now , she told me , she was returning to " religious " work . 
In her studio , I saw several pictures directly inspired by the local scene . 
One was a composite of Blackpool 's pleasures , another a colourful sketch of the Illuminations . 
Rhythmic 
One I particularly liked was a study of three girls preparing to swim . 
The rhythmic flow of their bodies made an interesting and satisfying composition . 
Horses from the Tower Circus were featured on a small painting full of vigour and delight in movement . 
Miss Smith has taught painting — in sanatoriums , which inspired one of the paintings now exhibited in Preston , and in mental hospitals — but it has always been her aim to be a full-time painter . 
Now she has achieved it . 
She paints all through the day every day , starting at 8 a m , taking time off for lunch , and working until 6 p m . 
Month to paint 
A full-sized picture takes about a month to complete and afterwards , she relaxes for a few days before starting another . 
Soon she will be employing one of her relaxation periods for another sort of painting . 
She is going to decorate her sittingroom . 
" It will be my first attempt , " she told me . 
RED LIGHT PLAIN TO ALL BY " ZEPHYRUS " 
AT last people are genuinely worried . 
One resignation , two resignations , even three resignations from the Blackpool Town Council they were prepared to accept as more or less normal wastage . 
But when , last week , the total rose to six with the impending departure of Marton 's 70-year-old Coun James Shepherd Leigh , ratepayers suddenly recognised as a very real thing the red light which this column has been flashing for months . 
At function after function this week I am told , it has been said , " The situation is serious . 
We ca n't afford to lose experienced administrators at this rate . " 
Of course not 
Well , of course we ca n't . 
What is more , unless the political parties themselves are prepared to admit that one way or another the rot must be stopped , local government in Blackpool could be in trouble before very long . 
How can the parties help ? 
Obviously , I should think , by taking their councillors on one side and telling them it is time they started behaving like intelligent adults . 
Members of the council are not unaware why many of their colleagues are quitting the municipal scene , or why quite a number of others are sick to the teeth . 
They know , as one or two have said publicly , that they are going because they feel that under the existing set-up it is well nigh impossible to have even the most insignificant questions discussed without the political and personal element creeping into them . 
Disunity 
Indeed , disunity has become a matter for joking . 
The other day eight members of the Estates and Housing Committee , and four Corporation officials , made the long journey into Staffordshire to inspect some old people 's housing schemes . 
The outward journey was halted for morning coffee , and I hear that when councillors saw the name of the hotel one of them wanted to know if , in making the arrangements , a Town Hall official had tried to be sarcastic . 
The name of the hotel ? 
" The Good Companions " ! 
By themselves , committees function reasonably well . 
It seems to be when committees join forces and become either the General Purposes Committee or a public meeting of the Town Council that feathers begin to fly . 
All hail , therefore , to one of the most recent proposals to come out of the Town Clerk 's Department . 
Scrapped 
It is — as long advocated by this column — that the General Purposes Committee as at present constituted ( it consists of all members of the council ) should be scrapped , and replaced by a more compact and workable body . 
Finance page £143,780 FOR COMPULSORY PURCHASE 
THE Minister of Housing and Local Government is to be asked by Dudley Corporation for consent to borrow £146,367 , most of which is needed for the compulsory acquisition of property . 
Block valuation given by the district valuer for the new dock areas is £53,720 ; for the Highgate-road , Woodside areas , £10,120 ; for the Yew Tree Hills area , £14,100 . 
These , with other sums for the Windmill End and St. John-street , Netherton areas , make a total of £108,415 . 
The grand total includes £23,365 for 19 , Hall-street , and £12,000 for the Britannia Inn and 97 , Hall-street . 
Lower profits from motor cycles 
The reimposition of the credit controls and the wet summer of 1960 had a particularly adverse effect on the activities of motor cycle dealers and resulted in a fall in the group profits of Jenkin and Purser ( Holdings ) , before tax , from £82,545 to £36,091 during the year ended September 8 last . 
Although much of the group 's business is effected on hire purchase terms , the company 's experience in this respect has been satisfactory , as the machines sold to retail customers on credit are retained as security until fully paid for . 
In his statement , the chairman emphasises that in any event the group 's reserves are adequate to meet all contingencies . 
The board have recommended a total distribution of 10 per cent . 
less tax , against 22 1/2 per cent . 
previously , while the chairman refuses to forecast future business as current turnover continues " to be substandard . " 
NEW COMPANIES 
Royle and Stanley , Ltd. — Private company . 
Registered January 9 . 
Capital £5,000 . 
Objects : To carry on the business of builders etc . 
Permanent directors : Harry Royle and Connie Royle , both of 14 , Bhylls-crescent , Merry Hill , Wolverhampton ; Joseph A. Stanley and Dorothy H. Stanley , both of Broadways , Brenton-road , Penn , Wolverhampton . 
Secretary : A. Bretherick . 
Registered office : Sun-street , Wolverhampton . 
Appointments 
Mr. N. R. R. Brooke has been appointed a director of Guest Keen and Nettlefolds . 
He is managing director of Guest Keen and Nettlefolds ( South Wales ) and is a director of certain other group companies . 
Mr. P. S. Watson and Mr. J. G. Nutman have been appointed directors of Smith and Nephew . 
Eastbourne Mutual Building Society . 
Total assets during 1960 increased by over £750,000 and now exceeded £8,500,000 . 
Sum advanced during year rose by £208,000 to £1,340,000 . 
Building society 1960 reports W'ton and District Permanent 
The total assets of the Wolverhampton and District Permanent Building Society now amount to £7,887,647 , having increased during 1960 by £518,102 . 
Mortgage assets amount to £6,538,695 , the net increase in the year being £458,842 . 
New mortgage advances , secured chiefly on owner occupied private dwelling houses , total £1,208,092 . 
Share and deposit investment received during the year amount to £1,232,153 . 
Allowing for withdrawals and the capitalisation of interest accrued , share and deposit balances increased to £7,204,214 . 
The society 's liquid funds at the close of the year totalled £1,297,743 , being equivalent to 16.4 per cent . 
of total assets . 
( The national average in 1959 was 14.6 per cent . ) 
Total reserves have increased to £495,000 , representing 6.6 per cent . 
of total assets , compared with the national average in 1959 of 4.56 per cent . 
Leek and Moorlands Building Society . 
— During 1960 assets and liabilities of Nalgo Building Society and of The Stockport Atlas Building Society were transferred to Leek and Moorlands . 
These transfers are included in the results for 1960 which show assets £63,500,000 — an increase of £17,500,000 . 
Mortgage advances during the year £8,000,000 ( £7,950,000 ) . 
Reserves increased by £673,000 to £2,930,000 . 
Tax amounted to £785,000 . 
Investments in trustee securities and cash £10,650,000 . 
Leicester Temperance Building Society . 
— Total assets at end-1960 were £23,360,000 , or £1,882,000 more than at end-1959 . 
Balance outstanding on mortgages totalled £18,988,000 , also and increase of £1,882,000 . 
Investments and cash at bankers aggregated £3,880,000 , representing 16.6 per cent . 
of total assets , while Reserve Funds are 4.26 per cent . 
of assets . 
Advances during the year of £4,002,000 were a record for the society , and 96 per cent . 
of the total amount advances was on owner-occupied private dwelling houses . 
Markets are irregular LONDON 
AFTER making a hesitant start to the New Account , stock markets have taken some encouragement today from the trade figures , which are better than expected , and quietly irregular conditions prevail . 
Gold shares are very firm despite the sharp fall in the gold price following the U.S. ban on gold hoarding , sentiment being encouraged by the belief that Americans will switch from gold into gold shares . 
There is a widespread advance in gold share prices , ranging 6d. to 5s. , the latter seen in F. S. Geduld . 
Industrials are mixed , but with sentiment helped by a favourable reading of the trade figures . 
The leaders have rallied from a dull start . 
Glaxo , however , remain a depressed spot at 60/10 1/2 on the cut in selling prices . 
Textiles are firm on talks of further possible mergers , with good gains by Bleachers and Bradford Dyers . 
Stores have recovered part of their earlier falls . 
Steels are often a few pence easier but a number of firm spots are seen in engineerings . 
Buildings have gone ahead . 
Oils are firm with Shells strong . 
New prices quoted today : BIRMINGHAM 
Modest improvements in engineering today include Radiation 34/9 , Wolseley-Hughes 49/- , Smith 's Stamp . 
30/- , Wilkins and Mitchell 13/4 1/2xd. , Midland Bright 14/- , Midland Iron 5/9 , Duport 12/10 1/2 and Cope Allman 22/3 . 
Guest new have been bought at 44/3 . 
Clarksons , however , have dipped to 28/3 and Valor 15/- . 
B.M.C. have shed 6d. to 15/6 , and Rovers 3d. to 14/7 1/2 , but Standards are hard at 10/6 , while S. Smith are supported at 17/4 1/2 . 
Stores are a fairly strong counter , with Wigfalls outstanding at 32/- . 
Susan Small look well at 29/- . 
Albrights are 25/3 and Baggeridge Brick 8/9 . 
HIGHER PROFITS AND PAYMENT BY EDGE TOOL 
Good results are announced by Edge Tool Industries , of Wolverhampton . 
Group profits , before tax , for the year to September 30 , are reported at £223,878 , compared with £147,126 previously , with tax taking £109,260 against £68,829 , net profits come out at £114,618 , against £78,297 . 
Allocation to reserves is £10,000 against £7,000 , and £1,001 against nil is written off trade marks . 
The loss of exchange-turning on the company 's Brazilian Subsidiary was £1,415 against £1,250 . 
Edge Tool 's final dividend is maintained at 12 1/2 per cent. , but it means a total payment of 20 per cent. , against 17 1/2 per cent . 
— the interim having been raised from 5 per cent . 
to 7 1/2 per cent . 
The Brazilian subsidiaries ' figures are not consolidated with the results of the home companies in the group , but the figures show that the Brazilian company has another good year with net profits up from 9,700,000 cruzeiros to 10,500,000 cruzeiros . 
Home companies in the group include Chillington Tool Co. , Edward Elwell , Ltd. , and Midland Heat Treatments . 
The annual meeting will be held on February 10 . 
Mr. H. W. Hunt is chairman . 
Dividend increased by P. J. Evans 
An increase in trading profit from £78,648 to £100,648 , and a 2 1/2 per cent . 
rise in the dividend total for the year to September 30 , 1960 , are reported by P. J. Evans , the Birmingham motor vehicle distributors . 
Following the higher 7 1/2 per cent . 
( 5 per cent. ) interim , the final is being maintained at 15 per cent . 
After depreciation , etc. , of £18,378 ( £16,442 ) and tax £42,514 ( £31,739 ) , the net profit is up from £30,467 to £39,756 . 
The carry-forward is £99,613 ( £76,395 ) . 
Annual meeting , February 24 . 
H. J. BARLOW SHARES 
The 2s . 
Ordinary shares in H. J. Barlow and Co. have been made available to those who , on December 30 , held 100 or more Neville Developments Ordinary Shares . 
Holders of 100 Developments Ordinary take part in a ballot for 100 Barlow Ordinary and holders of 200 or more receive 100 Barlow for every complete 100 Developments with a maximum allocation of 10,000 . 
Acceptance letters will be posted today and dealings are expected to start in Birmingham tomorrow . 
ISSUE SUCCESS 
The directors of Concentric Manufacturing Co. announce that of the 1,020,000 Ordinary 2s. shares offered to shareholders on a rights basis at 10s. a share , 994,910 shares , representing 97.5 per cent . 
of the total , have been taken up on the rights terms . 
The remaining 25,090 shares have been sold in accordance with the terms of the issue for the benefit of the company . 
HANDFORD GREATREX 
It is understood that terms of a counter-bid for the Ordinary shares of Handford Greatrex and Co. , of Walsall , producers of upper leather and hide processors , may be put before Ordinary shareholders this week . 
Behind the counter-bid are understood to be Mr. Bernard Owens , a Birmingham insurance broker , and Mr. Alan G. Higgs , a Coventry businessman . 
Meanwhile , Harvey and Sons , tanners and curriers , of Nantwich and Bury , have announced ( as reported in the " Express and Star " on Saturday ) that , having received acceptances in excess of 65 per cent. , they have declared unconditional their offer for the Ordinary capital of Handford Greatrex . 
The share exchange offer is worth about 12s. a share , and the final date for acceptances has been extended to February 28 . 
Mr. G. Greatrex , chairman of Handford Greatrex , said today that shareholders would have a full opportunity to consider both offers . 
He and his family and other directors control more than 60 per cent . 
of the company 's shares and have recommended other holders to accept the Harvey offer . 
The £90,000 capital includes £50,000 in Ordinary shares . 
Company reports 
The Volkes Group , a holding company of manufacturers of filtration and silencing equipment and specialised engineering products , is raising the interim dividend from the equivalent of 4.58 per cent . 
to 5 1/2 per cent . 
on a capital increased by a one-for-five scrip issue . 
The total equivalent distribution for the year ended March 31 , 1960 , was 15.42 per cent . 
Group profits , before tax , of R. B. Pullin and Co. , electrical engineers and scientific instrument makers , increased from £316,990 to £361,309 for the year to September 30 , 1960 . 
The previous year 's effective 25 per cent . 
dividend total is maintained with an unchanged 20 per cent . 
final . 
The 5 per cent . 
interim for the previous year was paid prior to a two-for-five rights issue . 
Tax takes £170,247 , against £167,131 , leaving the net balance up from £149,859 to £191,062 . 
LONDON GAZETTE 
Order annulled and rescinded. — Simon Nadel , residing at 8 , School Lane-close , Rickerscote , Stafford , engineering draughtsman , receiving order dated September 1 , 1953 , rescinded . 
Adjudication dated April 6 , 1954 annulled . 
Petition dated September 1 , 1953 , dismissed . 
All on December 16 , 1960 . 
Debts paid in full . 
Gold price lowest for six weeks 
President Eisenhower 's order forbidding U.S. citizens to hold gold overseas brought a sharp fall in price on the London bullion market today . 
At today 's official fixing by the five leading dealers , it was cut by 2s. 4d. per fine ounce — the lowest point for six weeks . 
The dollar equivalent is 35.43 against the U.S. official price of 35 dollars . 
The fall is the biggest recorded at a fixing since October 27 when , after the City 's big gold rush passed its peak , the price dipped 6s. to 254s . 
The dramatic U.S. move to check the flow of gold from America was a top talking point in the City today . 
It sparked off selling in a market devoid of buyers , until the price went down . 
Then buyers came in . 
The market later became steadier , and the price rose to around 253s. on further buying . 
Of the Eisenhower ban — announced over the weekend and six days before he leaves office — one big dealer said : " In all probability it will create a certain amount of panic selling by Americans . 
" It is also going to strengthen the views of outsiders that devaluation of the Dollar , in their opinion , is imminent . 
So there may well be a return of heavy buying by them . 
This would push the price up . " 
Accountants say : " Abolish Schedule A " 
The abolition of the Schedule A tax on owner-occupied residential properties is among a number of tax recommendations made to Mr. Selwyn Lloyd , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , by the Association of Certified and Corporate Accountants , for his consideration prior to the Budget . 
The association says that while it recognises that abolition of Schedule A would involve a loss of revenue , there would be considerable administrative savings . 
SHOW PAGE Theatre CREAM OF VOICES PITCH TOO HIGH FOR US By ALAN BENDLE 
NONE of the singers who has already won through to the rank of international artist will be with the Covent Garden Company when it opens its week 's visit to Manchester on Monday . 
As Sir David Webster , the Garden 's general administrator , has been pointing out , the reasons are two — the international artists have too many engagements elsewhere and they are too expensive . 
The company can not afford to hire them for touring . 
I asked Sir David to make the second reason even plainer . 
How much must the company pay for the services of one of the great ones , a Callas , a Gobbi , a Christoff , and nowadays a Joan Sutherland or a Geraint Evans ? 
He shrugged his shoulders . 
" Anything from £300 to £800 , " he said . 
" Oh , yes , for one performance . " 
It is therefore on real hard cash that he bases his argument that if Manchester is ready to pay the top price of , say , 25s. a seat , and fill the theatre , Manchester can expect more of the world-famous ones — always provided that her claims do not unhappily conflict with those of La Scala , New York 's Metropolitan Opera , Vienna , Venice , Paris , San Francisco , and the rest of the world 's leading opera houses . 
The career of an international opera singer is not a particularly long one . 
The harvest of fame must be collected in some 15 years at most , and to-day , with the tax-gatherer in hot pursuit , no-one is likely to rival the fortune of a Caruso or a Melba . 
THERE is a more sensible attitude than that adopted by some of Manchester 's opera fans . 
Taking recent years as an example , Joan Sutherland may now be shuttling between the States and Italy ; Canadian Jon Vickers may have been stolen away by New York and Chicago ; and Geraint Evans may be conquering Vienna , but we have heard them all in the near past . 
And there are singers with us next week who are destined for world renown but are still here to be listened to . 
Why should we let nostalgic longings spoil the pleasure of picking out to-morrow 's world favourites ? 
Let us , like the gentlemen of the Turf , choose half a dozen to follow . 
My own list is : soprano Joan Carlyle ( " { Der Rosenkavalier " and " Boheme " ) ; soprano Marie Collier ( " Boheme " ) ; bass Michael Langdon ( " { Der Rosenkavalier " ) ; mezzo-soprano Josephine Veasey ( " Carmen " and " Peter Grimes " ) ; and baritone David Ward ( " Aida " ) . 
THAT admirable singer Michael Langdon has one passion that must endear him to a wider public . 
When he is not using his voice as Baron Ochs in " { Der Rosenkavalier " — he sang the role at Covent Garden in November and repeats it in Manchester — he is putting it to what I believe he secretly considers an equally good purpose . 
" I 'm Wolverhampton-born , " he said , " and I try to be free as often as possible when the Wolves are playing so that I can go and cheer them on . " 
Well over six feet tall , he has no crowd difficulties in watching soccer with an expert eye . 
But he finds his height a handicap when it comes to his other hobby — gardening . 
" The garden , " says Michael , " is such a long way down ! " 
He has been with the company for 13 years , and already in 1950 was singing solo roles . 
The drunken monk Varlaam , in " Boris Gudonov , " gave him a notable start , and the Grand Inquisitor , in " Don Carlos " — as one of the cast that included Tito Gobbi and Boris Christoff — was his biggest break . 
He went to Vienna last year to study Baron Ochs under Alfred Jerger , who had sung the part with Richard Strauss conducting . 
He has achieved a ripe humour without clowning , and as a result is to sing the Baron with the Hamburg State Opera . 
IS the Covent Garden tour repertory too familiar ? 
Well , you know what happens when a new work appears — an inevitable and heavy financial loss . 
When "Peter Grimes " made its first appearance in Manchester the house was half-empty . 
On its second visit there was a slight improvement . 
Next week what will the answer be ? 
The same thing happens in London . 
This season is the first in which " Peter Grimes " has sold out for several performances . 
Placed on record By Roderick Random Backing to the front 
SOMETIMES when you listen to a record , the backing , however unobtrusive it may be , attracts your attention more than the singer . 
I mean no slight on Mr. Gary Miller when I confess that this is what happened when I heard his record " Dream Harbour " ( Pye , 7N.15338 ) . 
The accompaniment , a soft , oriental rhythm , came through entrancingly . 
It was , I discovered , the work of one of the busiest back-room boys of the recording world — Bill Shepherd . 
I note that he has credits on two other records this week — " Model Girl , " by Davy Jones ( Pye , 7N.25072 ) and " Kookie Talk , " by Scott Peters ( Pye 7N.15343 ) . 
I met Bill for a few minutes just before he began yet another session for a BBC programme . 
Chubby , cheerful , duffle-coated and carrying a bag containing 40 precious band arrangements . 
" I 've done all sorts of things , " he said . 
" I was a singer with a group called the Coronets . 
I 've played a few instruments , and I was once a journalist . 
But I 'm happy just now to be one of the people behind the big vocal stars . " 
Bill spends his spare time with the other sort of stars — his hobby is astronomy . 
She 's dead set on singing 
ONE thing about Billie Laine . 
She has got determination . 
So much of it that you feel that if she set her mind on swimming the Channel or breeding champion poodles , or anything , she 'd do it . 
As it is she just wants to sing . 
" When I was a little girl , " said the 24-year-old shapely miss from Trinidad , " my mother said I ought to learn to type or do dressmaking , or something like that . 
But I wanted to sing — so I just sang . " 
She began on the West Indies radio station 's equivalent of Children 's Hour . 
Then she graduated to her weekly programmes . 
She sang in clubs and in concerts , until she looked around one day and asked herself : " Where do I go from here ? " 
The answer was London . 
With her usual determination she arrived last July . 
She did n't know a single soul . 
BUT she started to sing — and that was enough . 
She has just made her first record for Philips , called "Kiss Me " ( 326547 , BF ) . 
" It 's a pop song , " she admitted . 
" And I want to sing jazz . 
Jazz , jazz , jazz , that 's for me . " 
She called herself Billie ( although her real name is Grace ) after her model , her idol , the late Billie Holliday . 
" There will never be another like her , " she said . 
Next month Billie makes her first EP — as a genuine jazz singer — with Bill McGuffie providing the backing . 
THEY keep burying rock 'n roll — but it just wo n't lie down . 
" Pony Time , " a fast piece of work by Chubby Checker ( Columbia , 45-DB.4591 ) and Ray Garnett ( R.C.A. 1228 ) will probably be as popular here as it is in the States . 
That goes for " Gee Whiz , " by Clara Thomas ( London , HLK.9310 ) , too . 
But my record of the week is the new Bobby Vee one — " More Than I Can Say " ( London , HLG.9316 ) . 
CLASSICAL LOOK 
THOUGH one thinks of Tchaikovsky mainly as a lightly popular orchestral composer , he did write more than 100 songs , many of them very fine indeed . 
But , apart from " None But The Weary Heart , " few of them are generally known . 
Just how rewarding these songs are may be judged from the fourteen selected by Boris Christoff in a new LP recital ( HMV ALP 1793 ) . 
Christoff , whose gifts are well known at Covent Garden , admirably varies the use of his splendid bass voice to suit the mood of the songs — from , for instance , the vigour of " Don Juan 's Serenade " to an enchanting mezza-voce in the gentler moments . 
The value of the disc is enhanced by a phonetic version of the Russian text , with an English translation alongside . 
The " Rose Marie " girl is happy in the swim Neville Wareham 's Show Round-up 
VIRGINIA COURTNEY straightened a strand of coal-black hair , added a touch to her coppery complexion , and said : "I think my mother had visions of my swimming the Channel . 
I could swim before I ever learned to dance , and I started that when I was three and a half . " 
Miss Courtney 's skin is normally as white as any English city dweller 's , and her hair , she told me , " is really like yours — an ordinary , mousy shade . " 
As I straightened a strand of my ordinary , mousy hair , she added : "The management pays me to keep it dyed as long as I 'm playing Wanda . " 
WE were talking in her dressing-room at Manchester 's Palace Theatre , where Miss Courtney is giving an exciting performance as the sultry Indian girl in " Rose Marie , " and sometimes we had to talk pretty loudly . 
From a dressing-room down the corridor came the sounds of David Whitfield limbering up his voice , now almost back to normal volume after an illness which recently kept him out of the show for two weeks . 
And from the pipes in the corner came less musical gurglings as the water from the bathroom upstairs drained away . 
" I count the number of baths people have during the evenings , to be sure there 'll be enough hot water left for me , " said Miss Courtney . 
" I need that bath badly . " 
She has to wash off the coppery make-up which covers most of her body , and , particularly on days when there are two performances , that means a good deal of washing . 
BUT Miss Courtney is perfectly happy in any amount of water , provided it 's not too cold . 
As a child she lived at Herne Bay , and her mother , a professional swimmer , diver , and dancer , soon had little Virginia following in her wake . 
" I just can not remember a time when I could n't swim , " she told me . 
" It 's quite possible that I might have swum the Channel , though the longest measured distance I ever covered was only five miles . 
" In open water , distance does n't bother me as long as I can take my time and just plod on . " 
She is also an expert skin diver , and between dancing and acting engagements has appeared in big aqua shows and modelled swim-suits under water . 
While dancing in a " Five Past Eight " revue in Glasgow she was called on to do some swimming in a Royal Command performance . 
"IT 'S funny , " mused Morton Fraser , " to think that last year Don Arroll was working for me . 
And next week he 'll be top of the bill at Manchester Hippodrome with the Harmonica Gang in support . 
" Not that I mind at all . 
He 's a very nice lad with a lot of talent and we 're happy to be working with him on this variety tour . " 
"All the same the rapid rise of the young comic is a prime example of the potency of TV , for without his spell as compere of the Sunday Palladium show , Don Arroll would still be using his undoubted talent in much lowlier spots on the bill . 
Fraser and his gang have spent most of this week in Manchester , although their Hippodrome date does not begin until Monday . 
They have been working on a new BBC TV musical show which makes its debut next Saturday , and on Thursday were in Edinburgh for a TV show with Charlie Chester . 
For the last eight years Fraser has left the stage performances to his gang , and has concentrated behind the scenes on management problems and finding a steady supply of bookings . 
NOT many people know that his decision to stay in the background was made at Oldham , and was initiated by an implacable doctor . 
Fraser told me : " We had been playing Cardiff , and I arrived at the Oldham Empire with the gang and a dreadfully sore throat . 
" The theatre manager sent for a doctor , who told me : " There 's no show for you this week . 
You 're going straight to bed — unless you want to be the central figure in a show you wo n't know anything about . " 
BROTHER JOHN AND THE GRANDAD ROACH by David Hanington 
THERE are too many fish in the old monks ' pool . 
One especially is causing Brother John a certain amount of concern . 
" It is a roach , " said Brother John , in tones of respectful piety . 
" Huge chap . 
Sometimes we see him swimming about beneath the water lilies , as big as a submarine . " 
The fish on Brother John 's 300-acre estate present a problem , certainly . 
But they are unlikely to daunt him . 
For Brother John has hooked bigger fish in his time . 
Barrister ... coal-miner ... flying-officer ... farmer ... 
M.P .... and father of six sons . 
John Faithful Fortescue Platts-Mills is not a Brother in the monastic sense . 
His fellow trade-unionists have adopted it as a nickname , for Mr. Platts-Mills is a staunch union man . 
He belongs to the Transport and General Workers ' Union . 
" As a farm worker , I qualify , " he says . 
Last weekend Brother John threw open the grounds of his magnificent home near Buxted for a union rally . 
More than 1,000 union men and their families arrived to play bowls , eat barbecued chicken and row on his fish-infested lake . 
Brother John is one of those complex characters — a landowner with vigorous Socialist ( with a small " s " ) theories . 
His energy and enterprise have brought him wealth : he spent the money from his first big brief in buying a farm in Essex just before the war . 
But he still adheres to a strong union outlook . 
" Property in Britain is privately owned , so I own property , " he said . 
" But I am still in favour of the nationalisation of land for all new buildings . " 
He wore sandals and an open-necked shirt when I met him this week . 
His baggy grey flannels were supported by a polka-dot tie instead of a belt . 
" Today is the last day of my holiday , " he explained . 
( His " holiday , " incidentally , has consisted of working on his farm with a vigour which would dismay most other men on the shady side of 50 ) . 
Mr. Platts-Mills 's career details read like a plot for a schoolboy adventure story . 
He was born in New Zealand , won a Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford , and got his M.A. ( 1st Class ) , and Bachelor of Civil Law . 
At Oxford he rowed , played rugby for his college and was in the Varsity boxing team as a heavyweight . 
He married , and when war started he joined the R.A.F. By 1944 he was a collier in Yorkshire , the first professional man to become one of the " Bevin boys . " 
He joined the miners ' union , and in 1945 became M.P . 
for Finsbury . 
But drastic differences of opinion developed . 
Platts-Mills quarrelled with Attlee and Bevin about the stand being taken by the Government over the Cold War . 
" I was promoted out of the Labour Party , " he said , with a wry grin at his own choice of words . 
For two years he sat as an Independent Labour member . 
At the next election he lost his seat , and has not turned to politics since . 
He still believes , however , in the policy of amity piercing the Iron Curtain . 
Brother John is chairman of the British-Soviet Friendship Society . 
His four older sons have all walked on ban-the-bomb marches . 
The house they have lived in for four years is spacious . 
As Mr. Platts-Mills explained : " We 're tall chaps — and there are a lot of us . 
We need a lot of room . " 
His eldest son , Tim , 24 , is a timber worker on the estate . 
The others are variously engaged at Oxford , in the manufacturing world , and as a film editor . 
The two youngest — " babies , " their father calls them , although they are 12 and 10 respectively — are at boarding school . 
Mr. Platts-Mills breeds prize pigs — there are about 300 of them , — and they respond admirably to his farming techniques . 
" They regard me , " he says , "as one of the family . " 
The other side of his career is as a successful barrister , based in Temple , E.C.4 . 
He was one of the defending counsel at the preliminary hearing of the Worthing bank murder case . 
Politics seem far away , as one strolls casually round his lovely 13th century house , formerly a monastery and after that a rectory — the Platts-Mills still have to pay an annual tithe for their property . 
But Mr. Platts-Mills is a man of many parts . 
" It may be that I may take up politics again , " he said . 
" But so far I have n't given it much serious thought . " 
If he does , I imagine Brother John will set about it with the same determination he shows in every other way : whether he is directing an impassioned plea in wig and gown , or denouncing unscrupulous bosses to his fellow-workers . 
I do n't envy the future of that grand-daddy roach ! 
Spotlight on Shoreham Harbour A VISITOR IN THE VIKING TRADITION BY CAPT . 
J. FOGGITT 
WOODEN ships and iron men were the boast of seamen long ago , and one would be justified in thinking the old adage no longer applied . 
But the spirit of those old days was revived at Shoreham Harbour last weekend when the Norwegian vessel Presthus 2 berthed at the east end of Aldrington basin . 
Constructed in the manner of the old Viking ships so famous in the history books , this sturdy little craft of only 118ft. length and 89 net tons is , except for the engines and accompanying equipment , built entirely of wood . 
Norwegian built at Rosendal in 1943 , the hull is planked with 4 1/2 inch pitch-pine on 6in. by 6in. frames drawing down to a 2ft. by 4ft. keel , frames being spaced from 6in. to a foot apart . 
There is an inner lining of similar construction to that of the outer planking , and the space between the two shells is insulated throughout against the effects of outside temperatures , hatch combings and covers being built-up and insulated in like manner . 
Although designed on trawler lines , she was expressly built for the carrying of frozen goods . 
She is something more than a refrigerator ship though , and is in fact a deep freeze carrier . 
She brought 120 tons of deep frozen vegetables , mostly peas , from Antwerp to Shoreham for distribution to the deep freeze food markets . 
This is a new venture in the port and this first cargo will open yet another type of trade to Shoreham harbour . 
Powered by a Norwegian-type diesel engine , this little ship has made many deep-water passages , crossing the North Atlantic on a number of occasions to Iceland , Greenland and Canadian ports . 
There is something of the Nelson touch about Capt. Gloppholm , the master of this tough little craft , and his crew of six stalwarts when they tell of the exciting trips they have made together and the manner of their boasting of the seaworthiness of the ship in which they serve . 
Although there were complaints of the liveliness of her capers in heavy weather and of being thrown out of their bunks on many occasions , they were quick to point out that she is a first-class sea-boat . 
Apart from the radio and a small Decca set , there are none of the modern aids to navigation on board so the skipper and his mate must needs be masters of their craft . 
Paper cargo 
Most of the foreign ships this week have been Dutchmen . 
Henriette B and Zaanstroom from Amsterdam came to the inner lay-by , Molensingel loaded spent oxide at the gasworks for Nantes , Equator brought fir logs from Kristiansund , Norway , to Aldrington Basin for the Marley Tile Co. , and Aerdenhout came from Isnas , Finland , with timber and paper . 
There was a newcomer to the power station on Wednesday with the arrival of the B.E.A . 
collier Cliff Quay , named after the power station at Ipswich . 
The wine and spirit trades still continue to flourish with the British m.v . 
Drake bringing brandy from Tonnay Charente early in the week and the Spanish m.v . 
Canton Pequena bringing sherry from Spain . 
Getting up steam for celebration 
RAILWAY enthusiasts are getting up steam for a really important anniversary celebration — the 100th birthday of the Shoreham to Steyning line along which the Steyning Flier , the most famous train in West Sussex , still puffs every day . 
But , despite the painstaking research which occupies the leisure hours of the keener enthusiasts , this anniversary nearly slipped by unnoticed . 
It was 18-year-old Steyning Grammar School boy Michael Keeney , of Atherton , Jarvis-lane , Steyning , who came upon the fact that the Shoreham to Henfield railway , via Steyning , opened on July 1 , 1861 . 
He got to work immediately . 
He and the headmaster of Steyning County Primary School , Mr. E. C. G. Lewis , went delving into the files of newspapers of 100 years ago . 
Some fascinating facts were unearthed , which today are not without their touch of humour . 
Take the story of " A Narrow Escape . " 
It happened shortly before the track was officially opened , when a ballast train was chugging down the line . 
It concerns a character called Humphry of Henfield , an unfortunate lad who suffered from deafness . 
He was observed 150 yards in front of the engine , walking between the metals with an eel-spear over his shoulder . 
In dramatic prose , the report takes up the story : " The engine driver blew his whistle but no heed was taken . 
Fortunately a gentleman was on the engine who knew the lad to be deaf so that it would be impossible by sound to make him aware of his danger . 
The brake was applied , and every means used to stop the train , fortunately with success . " 
The report does not say so , but one hopes that Humphry just kept on walking between the metals , blissfully unaware of the iron monster behind him , until , in his own good time , he reached his destination and put down his eel-spear , waving cheerily to the engine driver as he passed . 
Facts about the opening ceremony of the line will come in useful , for schoolboy Michael is hard at work talking British Railways into a commemoration run with an ancient engine . 
He dreams of prising period costumes from their mothballs in the railways ' museum to be worn by officials on the big day . 
He may succeed if enough enthusiasts get in touch with him , and he can guarantee a train load of guests . 
If it comes off , it should be quite a day , but it is unlikely to finish with a dinner of the scale provided at the White Horse , Steyning , 100 years ago . 
Then , 70 or 80 persons sat down . 
Says a newspaper report : " The dinner was altogether excellent and the champagne of the finest vintage . " 
After the loyal toasts , the health of " The Army " , " The Navy " and " The Volunteers " were successively drunk . 
Almost as an afterthought came the toast " Health and success to the directors , managers and officials of the London , Brighton and South Coast Railway Company . " 
Meanwhile , the Storrington Rifle Band were in action with a piece called " The Nightingale , " upon which , says the report , the party broke up . 
The band , preceded by flags , marched again to the station , followed by a large concourse of people . 
When the train set off " a genuine cheer from Sir George Pompey was taken up all along the line and repeated again and again , and this completed one of the jolliest days in the records of Old Steyning . " 
There is only one sad note about it all . 
Humphry of Henfield appeared to take no notice . 
Commonwealth Exhibition AND NOW THERE ARE TWELVE 
SIX years ago there were eight independent members of the Commonwealth . 
Today there are 12 . 
Who are the other peoples of the Commonwealth ? 
Why are they so important to us and we to them ? 
What holds us together ? 
For the answers to these and many other questions which vitally affect the lives of us all you should visit the Commonwealth Exhibition at Hove , which is divided into seven sections , each designed to give an insight into the various aspects of the Commonwealth in our midst and its influence on the lives of each one of us . 
HOW much do you know about the Commonwealth of the present day ? 
Almost every day we hear something about its importance to us . 
We hear of the wealth and untapped resources of the countries which belong to it and of their strength and growth . 
Pat Answers A Fir Park Prayer MOTHERWELL 5 , HIBS 1 . 
( Half-time — 2-1 . ) 
DELIGHTFUL ! 
When Motherwell play like this that 's the only possible way to describe them . 
And , glory be , they now have somebody to stick them in the net . 
Sure , big Pat Delaney missed some pinches . 
About a dozen as a conservative estimate . 
But he scored three goals , laid on one , hit the post with a header , and had two more net-stretchers disallowed for infringements . 
So altogether you can say Jimmy Delaney 's boy had a reasonably successful afternoon . 
There was a laugh before the start when 'Well skipper Willie McSeveney came out some 20 yards ahead of his team mates . 
It looked for a moment as if he were going to tackle Hibs single-handed . 
From the final score , you might think he could have done , at that . 
Not so . 
Until they were latterly demoralised by the jinking homesters , this was quite a good Hibs team . 
Lack of forward cohesion was the rock on which they foundered . 
A Bobby Young " goal " disallowed for offside in the fifth minute set the game alight . 
But the first legitimate counter went to Hibs . 
Weir stopped a Stevenson shot , dropped it , then scooped it out straight to Preston , who drove home through a crowded goalmouth . 
A deft Delaney header from a McPhee cross restored equality . 
Then came tragedy for Simpson , who had executed wonder saves from Hunter , Delaney , and McPhee . 
A long , down-the-middle ball eluded Preston and Delaney . 
Simpson ran out , completely missed his kick , and Delaney walked it home . 
After the turn 'Well ran riot . 
Roberts shivered the bar . 
Shots flew everywhere around Simpson 's goal . 
Delaney wrapped number three up in silver paper for McPhee . 
Next Pat netted an " offside " one . 
Then he sent Young off , and was in position to capitalise the youngster 's cross . 
And in the last minute Pat rocketed home another , only to find the whistle had gone for a penalty for Baird fouling Quinn . 
Pat Quinn , as is his custom , made no mistake with the spot kick . 
Quinn has been called " the little General . " 
Here he was a combination of Montgomery , Napoleon , Horrocks , and all the Generals you ever heard of . 
Just a hair's-breadth behind was Willie Hunter . 
Thomson was a topper , too . 
And Delaney , of course . 
But 'Well really had n't a failure . 
The home crowd goosed Sammy Baird unmercifully for a few minor indiscretions . 
But Sam , along with Grant , Easton , and Simpson , was a real Hibs stalwart . 
Yes , Simpson . 
Never mind that second goal . 
Crowd — 5500 . 
LOCAL BOY MAKES GOOD — WITH A HAT-TRICK DUNFERMLINE ATHLETIC 6 , AIRDRIE 2 . 
( Half-time — 1-0 . ) 
WHAT a dream debut for young 19-year-old Jackie Sinclair ! 
Playing his first League game before the home crowd , the ex-Blairhall junior , who lives in Dunfermline , scored a glorious hat-trick and fitted into the scheme of things perfectly . 
Sure , he still has a bit to go — but one thing he CAN do is put the ball in the net , and that 's good enough to go on with . 
Take a good look at the names of the other goal-scorers . 
Not a solitary from Messrs Charles Dickson and his inside-forward cronies . 
This is no criticism of the trio , but it illustrates how potentially good this Dunfermline team can be . 
It took them a long time to get the first goal , but the writing was always on the wall , and once they found the net there was no stopping them . 
Two Airdrie goals within a minute of each other late in the second half jolted them , but that was all . 
These goals apart , all Airdrie had to offer was a stout-hearted defence and excellent sportsmanship . 
They were outmanoeuvred all along , but refused to go under and never stooped to a shady action . 
After a first half of frustration , young Sinclair showed the way . 
Just on the half-time whistle he hit a Cunningham free-kick past Dempster close to the near post . 
After the interval , Miller scored the best goal of the game . 
Over came a Melrose corner . 
The left-half ran a good 15 yards from around the penalty spot and his header flew into the net . 
TWO BEAUTIES . 
Then George Peebles decided to take a hand . 
Within five minutes he fired a couple of beauties into the net . 
Sinclair finished off the Dunfermline scoring . 
First he hit a left-footer cleanly into the net , and then sank a penalty like a veteran after Shanks had handled his first shot , which finished over the line . 
Storrie and Hinshelwood were the Airdrie scorers . 
Both beat Connachan from around the 20-yard mark . 
No criticism of the Dunfermline defence — they were never stretched . 
All three halves were immense while the forward line , switching and changing , had a real field day . 
Very few bouquets for Airdrie . 
Say Johnstone , McNeil , and Newlands earned pass marks , and that 's about it . 
Crowd — 8000 . 
CLYDE STAGE A FADE-OUT ALBION ROVERS 2 , CLYDE 3 . 
( Half-time — 0-3 ) 
FOR the first 15 minutes Clyde showed why they are favourites for a return to the big time . 
In that period they shattered Rovers ' defence with three snappy goals . 
But for the remaining 75 minutes they proceeded to show why they have faltered in recent weeks . 
Slackness and complacency allowed Rovers to come right back into the picture with two good goals , and for the last 15 minutes Clyde were a worried lot . 
LEARY STARS . 
Main reason for the sway of fortune centred round Dennis Leary , the Rovers ' pivot . 
After a disastrous start he found his feet , and from then on his wing halves , Harvey and McLure , got to grips with the attack , and the early Shawfield promise faded completely . 
McLaughlin capably led Clyde 's attack in the early spell and had two good goals in 5 and 15 minutes . 
Between times , big John Colrain , who finished limping on the wing , got the other goal — in the 7th minute . 
Stewart led the Coatbridge rally to score in the 72nd minute , and Livingstone made up the brace six minutes later . 
Crowd — 1000 . 
UNITED HAD THEIR FANS IN A SWEAT DUNDEE UNITED 2 , STIRLING ALBION 0 . 
( Half-time — 0-0 . ) 
ALBION look doomed for a slide back to the second grade . 
Certainly they 're already playing Second Division football . 
They were all triers , but they had no plan , no science , no cohesion , in fact , not a clue . 
And , worse still , they brought United down to the same dreadful level . 
Some of the attempts at ball control and passing were positively ludicrous . 
For 81 minutes this hopeless spectacle shaped like a goalless draw because over-anxious United , with all the territorial advantage , did n't seem to know how to circumvent a desperate defence . 
First "goal , " in six minutes came for Albion from Rowan , but the winger was obviously offside . 
Somewhat laboriously the Tannadice team built up attack after attack . 
There was little fluency in their movements , and certainly no finish . 
Carlyle and Gillespie missed inviting chances . 
Then Neil Mochan tingled Jim Brown 's fingers . 
Again the goalie saved the Albion bacon when he fisted over a whizzer from Dennis Gillespie . 
The once-in-a-while Stirling raids came mainly through Kilgannon and Rowan , for not one of the inside trio measured up to anything like First Division standard . 
The encouraging Tannadice howl had become a despairing "Och , come on , United " groan before Tommy Neilson made the vocalists happy by beating Brown . 
Like magic , the strain left the team . 
Mochan swerved a ball to Walter Carlyle five minutes later , and the centre settled the destination of the points . 
GORDON IN FORM . 
Good players were extremely scarce . 
Albion were well served by Brown and Weir in the rear . 
Only Myles , Kilgannon , and Rowan made attacking sorties . 
Of the home lot , Alex . 
Brown was practically unemployed , Gordon the best back afield , Neilson the only half-back with any finesse , and Gillespie the only real footballer in either front line . 
Bonar came by a knee injury and swopped wings with Mochan . 
This did n't help to improve the game , which should be quickly forgotten . 
Crowd — 7000 . 
Tight Defence Foils Morton ALLOA 2 , MORTON 1 . 
( Half-time — 1-0 . ) 
A HARD game , with both sides giving everything they had . 
The Wasps had that extra sting , which earned them victory . 
For the first 20 minutes they were on top and Foley gave them a deserved lead . 
Then Morton came more and more into the game , but had nothing to show for it . 
McKenna put Alloa further ahead in the second half in a breakaway raid . 
But Easson cancelled that seven minutes later . 
From then it was a question of whether Morton could equalise . 
They might have , but poor finishing robbed them of goals . 
And they were foiled by a watertight home defence . 
Hodge , E. Docherty , Vint , and J. Docherty all deserve mention for Alloa with Smith outstanding at centre-forward . 
For Morton , Boyd , Franks , and Cowie stood out in a hard , fighting combine , and Jackie Ferguson and Allan McGraw can fly back to Germany feeling they did n't let the side down either . 
Crowd — 2000 . 
TEST MATCH RECORD 
AFTER Ted Dexter had won the toss , England 's opening pair , Geoff Pullar and Peter Richardson , gave them a fine start in the first test against India at Bombay with an opening partnership of 159 . 
This beat the previous best opening against India — 146 by Pullar and Gilbert Parkhouse at Leeds in 1959 . 
By the close of play England had scored 288 for the loss of three wickets . 
Then Up Popped Patterson MONTROSE 2 , QUEEN OF THE SOUTH 3 . 
( Half-time — 2-0 ) 
MONTROSE sacrificed everything in a bid for two points which would have hoisted them into second place . 
Having taken two first-half goals , they sat back with that " what we have we hold " attitude . 
What a mistake it proved to be . 
In seven minutes Queen 's transformed things . 
Big Jim Patterson banged in a goal eight minutes from time . 
Three minutes later he nodded in another for the equaliser . 
Then McMillan and Martin pulled off a dramatic winner between them . 
What was the Montrose defence doing all this time ? 
The three goals followed the same pattern — crosses from the wings . 
First two were from corner kicks . 
All three might have been cleared . 
But if the home supporters became critical over the defence they should really lambast those forwards who were shot-shy against a strong Queens defence starring McTurk and Rugg . 
Take Frank Sandeman out of the attack — especially second half — and there would not have been a try from the lot of them . 
Queens had some excuse in that Patterson — delayed in arrival because of fog — was obviously not fully fit . 
He pottered about on the right wing for 85 minutes and did all the damage in that three-minute burst . 
Until then Phil Grieve scarcely had a save . 
Crowd — 2000 . 
FIGHTING FORFAR FORFAR 2 BERWICK RAN . 
2 . 
Half-time — 1-2 . 
BOBBY LEGGE , the ex-Buckie Thistle inside forward , made an impressive home debut for Forfar . 
In addition to clever leading-out work Bobby , though obviously short of a gallop , scored the goal that brought his side a point . 
Forfar were the more impressive side in the first half , when Ross put them ahead in five minutes . 
Their forward line cut the Berwick defence to ribbons , but could not get another goal , and gradually Rangers came more and more into the picture . 
McCulloch ( twice ) and Imrie both went close before the game took a dramatic turn in their favour . 
In an innocuous-looking attack Knox , on the goal-line , was adjudged to have handled . 
Right-half Smith banged home the penalty . 
He did the same three minutes later when McCulloch , tearing through , was downed by Berrie . 
To Forfar 's credit , they tightened up sufficiently to come back fighting 20 minutes from the end . 
In an all-out attack Legge rammed home the equaliser . 
Berwick carried most danger in their left wing . 
Forfar 's forward line , good in the first half , tapered off after the interval . 
Crowd — 1000 . 
Stranraer Dominate STRANRAER 4 , BRECHIN CITY 0 . 
( Half-time — 1-0 . ) 
BRECHIN tried hard , but there was only one team in it . 
Stranraer dominated throughout , and only forward failings deprived them of at least another four goals . 
What little football there was , Stranraer played it . 
County Gossip Air Minister Drops In For A Chat 
A ROYAL AIR FORCE helicopter of the Queen 's Flight put down some distinguished visitors to the U.S.A.F. station at Daws Hill , High Wycombe , on Friday last , chief among whom was the Air Minister , the Right Hon. Julian Amery . 
Accompanying the Minister on his visit , which also included a tour of RAF Upper Heyford , were Air Chief Marshal Sir Edmund Hudleston , Vice-Chief of Air Staff , Sir Maurice Dean , Permanent Under-Secretary of State for Air , Mr. John Roberts , the Minister 's Private Secretary , Air Marshal Sir Douglas Jackman , Co-ordinator of Anglo-American relations , Air Ministry , and Squadron Leader Peter Scott , Personal Air Secretary to Mr. Amery . 
The Secretary of State and his party were greeted by Major-General Charles B. Westover , Strategic Air Command 's 7th Air Division commander , who talked over with the Minister the command 's activities and mission in the United Kingdom . 
Never A Dull Moment 
THE life of a headmistress in school is not all sunshine and brightness , said Miss K. A. Walpole , of Wycombe Abbey School , when she presented her last annual report at the school 's speech day on Friday . 
Miss Walpole , who retires at the end of the year , said there were shadows even for a headmistress , with the care and administration of a school . 
But she had loved the life . 
There was never a dull moment for the head of a community of 400 or so people . 
One never knew what the next day would bring forward — it might be a challenge . 
Sad Goodbye 
APPOINTED to the school in 1948 , Miss Walpole said it would mean a sad goodbye to many friends in High Wycombe . 
She had received much kindness from borough councillors , education officials in the county and the Wycombe division , and local school heads . 
Miss Walpole , who told parents and visitors that she could look back over 40 years in the profession and 27 as a headmistress , heard words of tribute from Sir Ambrose Dundas , chairman of the school council . 
Sir Ambrose said that at school speech days Miss Walpole had paid tribute to staff , girls , parents and members of the council . 
" I wo n't say these tributes are not deserved , " he said " but you have never once paid tribute to the person to whom a lion 's share is due — yourself . " 
Regiment 's Visit 
THE county regiment of Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire , the 1st Green Jackets , 43rd and 52nd , at present stationed in Wiltshire , will be visiting the parent counties during September , the " Free Press " learns . 
Detailed plans are still to be made but it is likely that the tour will start in Bucks in late August , when a Rifle Company group , including mortar and anti-tank detachments , will be here for about ten days . 
There will be public displays and the men of the regiment hope to challenge local clubs at various sports . 
Supporting the company will be the Regimental Band and Buglers and a demonstration drill squad . 
A number of other activities are to be arranged to coincide with the visit . 
Honours List 
VISCOUNT CURZON , chairman of Bucks Education Committee , and Dr. G. W. H. Townsend , County Medical Officer and Chief Welfare Officer for Bucks , were congratulated at the June meeting of Bucks Education Committee on their award of the C.B.E . 
in the Queen 's Birthday Honours List . 
Col. F. W. Watson said Lord Curzon 's honour was one much deserved , not only for the work he did in the county but outside also . 
Lord Curzon offered the committee 's congratulations also to Dr. Townsend . 
Among other awards in the Queen 's Birthday Honours were — Mr. Frederick Hugh Dalziel Pritchard , Secretary-General of the British Red Cross , of Gerrards Cross , made a C.B.E. ; Group-Captain Angus Archibald Norman Nicholson , of Lakes-lane , Beaconsfield , C.B.E. ; and Lt.-Col. William Cavendish Carter , R.A. , of Sandels-way , Beaconsfield , O.B.E. Now He Is Their Leader 
A MAN who joined the High Wycombe Squadron of the Air Training Corps as a cadet in 1941 , soon after the unit 's formation , on Monday became its new commanding officer . 
Pilot Officer Edward Maddox , aged 36 , of 26 Squirrel-lane High Wycombe , took over command of No. 332 ( High Wycombe ) Squadron from Flight Lieutenant Harry Drinkwater , who is leaving the High Wycombe area after receiving a civil service promotion . 
Pilot Officer Maddox , who is married , with one daughter , left the A.T.C. with the rank of Leading Cadet in March 1943 . 
He went straight into the Royal Air Force , did aircrew training in the United States and received his pilot 's wings . 
Towards the end of the second world war he flew unarmed Stinson Reliant aircraft on communications and air-evacuation flights in the Burma theatre of operations and left the R.A.F. with the rank of Warrant Officer Pilot in April 1948 . 
In September , 1959 , he received a commission in the R.A.F. Volunteer Reserve training branch and has since served as equipment officer of the High Wycombe A.T.C. Squadron . 
A technical representative with the High Wycombe firm of Richard Graefe Ltd. , Pilot Officer Maddox is also treasurer of High Wycombe Wye Valley Angling Club . 
Plans For Future 
THE man he succeeds , Flight Lieutenant Drinkwater , lives at 12 Shelley-road , High Wycombe . 
Married with two daughters and a son who is a member of the Marlow Squadron of the A.T.C. , he is employed at the High Wycombe Valuation Office . 
Flight Lieutenant Drinkwater , who served as an administrative officer in the R.A.F. from 1940-46 including tours of duty in Sierra Leone , Nigeria and the Gold Coast is a former adjutant of Marlow A.T.C. Squadron and a former commander of No. 757 ( Vectis ) Squadron in the Isle of Wight . 
Present strength of the High Wycombe squadron is well over 40 . 
There were seven new recruits at Monday 's meeting and the unit hopes next spring to take possession of a new-type cedar hut , designed specifically for the A.T.C. , which will be erected in the area of High Wycombe Territorial Army barracks . 
Musical Barge 
WHEN the American Symphony Orchestra arrive in Marlow on July 15 they will use an 18-foot barge as their auditorium . 
At the Regatta Enclosure at Marlow the 65 musicians will play from the barge , which has large flaps 100 feet long by 60 feet to provide a stage depth of 32 feet . 
The craft , built at Dartford for the orchestra 's Thames tour was specially designed to negotiate the river 's lock and bridges . 
It is also equipped to give a fireworks display after each performance . 
Established at Pittsburg , U.S.A. , in 1957 , the orchestra has played in many countries of the world , including Japan , Mexico and China . 
When the orchestra arrives in Marlow , the musicians hope to be entertained in the homes of local people . 
Marlow Urban Council has given the visit every support and appeals have been made for residents to entertain the players . 
So far 60 of the 65 players have been guaranteed accommodation . 
Exchange Visits 
THE 27 teenagers and three adults who are visiting Amersham from Amersfoort , Holland , at the end of July , for an official seven-day visit , have been invited to bring over their national costumes to wear at one of the two parties organised in their honour . 
One of the parties will be on the day after they arrive , on July 22 , at Amersham Community Centre . 
Amersham Ladies ' Circle have offered to provide refreshments on that occasion . 
The other party will be in the form of an official "farewell " on July 27 , the day before they return home . 
A party of a similar size will go with them from Amersham for a stay in Amersfoort . 
At the final party Amersham Inner Wheel will provide refreshments , and plans are being made for an exhibition of Scottish dancing . 
Finishing touches were this week being put to the programme for the visitors . 
Amersham estate agent and historian Mr. L. Elgar Pike , is taking the party on a history tour of the district by car . 
Reading Trends 
ALTHOUGH the Prime Minister , Mr. Harold Macmillan , and other Commonwealth Prime Ministers , have been among the borrowers of books from Princes Risborough 's branch library , the public seems less keen on reading , the library 's annual report reveals . 
The number of books issued has dropped by 10,000 compared with last year . 
Closing of the library on Wednesday morning probably accounted in part for the decrease in the number of books issued , but the extra morning enabled more time to be given to administrative work , as a result of which new books have been more quickly circulated , books needing repair have had more regular revision and readers ' requests have been speeded up . 
More people have been using the library as a source of information , especially children , and the library has also played its part in the recreational and cultural life of Princes Risborough . 
Last summer the library served as a point of contact between a lecturer from Oxford University and people likely to be interested in a class in modern literature — and such a class was successfully launched in the autumn , books for the class being lent from the library 's headquarters . 
Social And Personal 
A 21-YEAR-OLD Prestwood man , Mr. Roy Taylor , son of Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Taylor , of High-street , Prestwood , has gained a first class honours B.Sc. degree from Leeds University . 
Three years ago he won a County Scholarship to the University from Dr. Challoner 's Grammar School at Amersham . 
He is planning a career in engineering , starting with a year 's spell with a Leeds firm . 
Mr. Brian James Bond , only son of Mr. and Mrs. P. H. Bond , of Ferry-lane , Medmenham , a former head boy of Sir William Borlase 's School , Marlow , has been appointed tutor in the Department of History at Exeter University . 
He graduated at Worcester College , Oxford , in 1959 , and is at present a research student at King 's College , London . 
Bright Prospects For A Bigger Wycombe School 
OFFICIALS and supporters of High Wycombe Show , taking heart from the present brilliant summer weather and the bright forecasts of more to come , are striving to make this year 's show in September bigger and better than ever . 
It will be the first show since the appointment of the new secretary , Mr. Wilfred Heritage — former High Wycombe police superintendent . 
And his all-consuming ambition at the moment is to put the show on to a firm financial footing . 
A bad-weather spell last year cost the show a credit reserve which had been slowly built up , and a committee was appointed to explore ways in which funds could be raised during the year . 
It has made a good start . 
But still it must be emphasised that to ensure the show 's continued existence for the general benefit and advertisement of the town and district , more subscribing members and vice-presidents are needed . 
Officials feel that they must have a regular income on which to rely — lessening their dependence on the weather . 
This year the show will stage the southern area finals of the " Foxhunter " competition , the winners going on direct to the main show in London . 
The Green Jackets will stage a marching band display , and there will be , among other attractions , a session of American baseball . 
Already there is a demand for trade stand space , and in the horticultural section , always a strong feature , there will be some new exhibits . 
New Deputy Chairman 
THE approval of the Lord Chancellor is being sought for the appointment of Mr. John R. T. Hooper , a well-known barrister and resident of Chalfont St. Peter , as a deputy chairman of Bucks Quarter Sessions . 
This was announced by Sir Arthian Davies , chairman , when the Midsummer Quarter Sessions opened at Aylesbury on Monday . 
Mr. Hooper , he said , had been a practicing barrister for some 20 years and had had considerable judicial experience as an assistant Recorder and as a member of the Midland Circuit . 
Mr. Hooper lives at Beech Lawn , Chalfont Heights , and earlier this week was appointed a member of the Beaconsfield magisterial Bench . 
New Tractor His Prize 
A LITTLE MARLOW farmer , Mr. Richard Barnes , of Wood Barn Farm , will have a very happy visit to the Royal Show at Cambridge on Thursday , July 6 . 
There , on the Dow Agrochemicals Ltd. stand , he will meet Ted Moult , farmer and B.B.C. personality , to be presented with the first prize which he has won in the " Know Your Enemy " competition organised by the agricultural chemical firm . 
Carlisle men accused of attack on girl 
A SIXTEEN-YEAR-OLD girl 's evidence was heard { 6in camera by Wigan magistrates on Wednesday when three Carlisle men were charged with an offence against her . 
The magistrates ( Mr. E. Routledge and Mr. J. Holiday ) sat all day listening to evidence in the case against John Earl ( 28 ) a painter , address given as 16 Brookside , Raffles ; Eldon Edward Cole ( 25 ) , labourer , address given as 32 Castle Street , and Lawrence Dixon ( 22 ) , labourer , address given as 87 Dalton Avenue , Raffles . 
The case was adjourned until August 16th because a witness from the N.W. Forensic Laboratories at Preston , was unable to attend . 
The men who were represented by Mr. Lionel Lightfoot , Carlisle , appeared , on remand , and their bail in the sum of £50 each was extended . 
Mr. A. Carr , Wigton , prosecuting said that the girl met Dixon at a fair earlier and went for a walk with him . 
He pulled her down and interfered with her clothes inspite of her struggles and pleas . 
They walked back to the fair together , and she later agreed to him taking her home . 
When they reached the Silloth Cafe the other two accused drew up in a van and said they would give her a lift home . 
She refused because she did not like the other two . 
" LIFTED INTO VAN " 
As she was walking up the street the van stopped beside her and one of the men lifted her into it and shut the door . 
She did not have time to shout or struggle and the van drove off . 
Mr. Carr alleged that all three men committed offences against the girl in the van despite her protests and struggles . 
The girl was taken on to Carlisle and Cole told her she had better stay at his place for the night , and there Mr. Carr alleged , Cole committed two more offences against her . 
She was taken to the station on Sunday and given 7/6d for her fare home . 
When the three were charged they all denied the offence . 
" But " added Mr. Carr , " evidence is available which corroborates the girl 's account . " 
Dr. Robert M. Yule , of Silloth said in evidence that he examined the girl on July 9 , and the result of his examination could be compatible with rape . 
REPORTED MISSING 
Constable James Armstrong said that the girl was reported missing by her parents at 1 a.m. on Sunday July 9 . 
A search was made , but she was not found until she was seen walking towards her home having come off the afternoon train from Carlisle . 
Interviewed , Dixon made a statement which was put in as evidence and the Constable alleged that Cole said that he had a clear conscience . 
Constable G. Lowther alleged that Earl told him that he had not touched the girl . 
They had gone to the fair in Silloth on the Saturday night and his pal " Lol " ( Dixon ) picked up a girl . 
They took her with them to Carlisle in the back of the van . 
They stopped at a cafe and " Collo " ( Cole ) took her a cup of tea and some biscuits . 
He ( Earl ) offered to take her back to Silloth but she said it was too late to go home and she went into the house with " Collo " . 
They put her on the 1 p.m. train for Silloth . 
The Constable added that when he cautioned and charged Earl with an offence against the girl he said he had nothing to say . 
USED BARN AS PLAYGROUND , YOUTHS FINED 
FIVE youths who made a Sunday night playground of farmer Anthony Dalzell Spedding 's barn at Mill Hill , Cleator Moor , were severely punished by Whitehaven Bench on Thursday . 
In fines , restitution and special costs , they were each ordered to pay a total of £5 7s 2d , and told by the chairman , Mr. Jos . 
D. Miller , " You must have respect for other people 's property . 
You had no right to be there and , indeed , were trespassing , and damage like this is a serious matter for a farmer . " 
William Dobson , aged 18 ; Dennis Smith ( 17 ) , of Devon Road , Hensingham and three sixteen-year-olds denied doing wilful damage to a hay mew , estimated at £10 . 
Mr. Spedding told the Court that on Sunday night , July 2 , when he and his family were returning home from a visit to friends , he heard a disturbance in the barn and tried to catch the culprits . 
" Three or four young men rushed out of the barn and got away , " he said . 
FOUND IN BARN . 
The following Sunday night there was a similar incident in the barn . 
" I telephoned for the police , " said Mr. Spedding , " and when P.C. Vallance arrived we entered the barn and found these lads there . 
About 30 or 40 bales of hay had been pulled down and were scattered over the barn . 
Much of the hay had to be rebaled and it took my son and I all day on Monday to get the place in order again . " 
P.C. Joseph Vallance stated that all five were on top of the mew " jumping about " and a large amount of hay was loose and trampled . 
One of the defendants told the Magistrates " We thought we 'd just have a laal bit of fun in the barn . 
We did n't do all that damage . 
The farmer 's wife said it could have been done by some boys who had pulled down dykes before . " 
None of the other four gave evidence in support of their " not guilty " plea . 
Cleator Moor wants a swimming bath 
CLEATOR Moor 's claims for a swimming bath to serve the whole Ennerdale Rural District were put forward by Coun. John Collighan at Monday night 's meeting of the parish council . 
" I feel we are the most central for the Frizington , Arlecdon and southern areas , " he said . 
Referring to Egremont , who are also in the running for the baths , he added " I do not want there to be any feeling of jealousy between the two towns in this . " 
A letter from Mr. G. S. Bessey , Cumberland Director of Education stated that the County Youth Committee could not support Cleator Moor 's claim but wished to know of developments . 
Remarked Councillor Collighan : " I feel we will get no help from the County Council , except on the planning side . " 
He thought they would get help from Ennerdale R.D.C. , if that Council agreed there should be a swimming bath in its area . 
IN OLD MARKET ? 
The Clerk , Mr. Ian Brown , recalled that it had been suggested that the old covered market might be suitable . 
Proceeds from the pending sale of Bowthorn Recreation Ground could be devoted to the cost of the baths . 
It was agreed to forward the suggestions to Ennerdale R.D.C. 
It was decided to ask the R.D.C. to adopt a by-law prohibiting parking on Cleator Moor Market Square . 
Coun. Collighan said there had been an improvement on the square , where the buses were now parking at the rear instead of in front of the library . 
Broke windows " for daftness " 
THE quarter-inch thick plate glass window of a confectioner 's shop in Whitehaven Market Place was shattered by a blow from 24-years-old Edward Orr , 3 , Cart Road , Ginns , late on Monday night — the first day of his annual holiday from work ! 
The crash was heard by young P.C. Fallowfield , walking home in civilian clothes , said Supt. Edward F. Nixon in Whitehaven magistrates ' Court on Thursday when Orr pleaded " guilty " to the damage , and to being drunk and disorderly . 
With him was William John James Cavanagh ( 26 ) of 41 , Fell View Avenue , Woodhouse , who admitted a breach of the peace . 
P.C. Fallowfield showed the men his warrant card , continued Supt. Nixon , and questioned them about the incident . 
They became "difficult , " refused their names and addresses , and a passing motorist was requested to find assistance for Constable Fallowfield . 
P.C. Benn joined him , and Orr , who was by that time aggressive , was arrested . 
Cavanagh tried to interfere with the police and , before Orr was taken into the police station , he had become violent . 
" I did it for daftness , I ca n't remember a thing about it , " Orr said , referring to the broken window . 
He was ordered to pay fines and damages amounting to £15 and Cavanagh was fined £2 for breach of the peace . 
New Minister for Wigton 
THE Rev. Ferdinand Arnold Nicholson , at present Congregational minister at Tillingham and Steeple , Essex , has been appointed as new minister to Wigton Congregational Church , and he takes over his new living on Sunday Nov. 5th . 
Before training for the ministry at Edinburgh University and the Yorkshire United Independent College , Bradford , Mr. Nicholson , who is 70 , spent nine years with a Hull firm of Chartered accountants . 
He has been a minister to nine churches having been called to his present church in 1957 . 
Mr. Nicholson was chairman of the Cornwall Congregational Union 1943-44 , Youth and Education secretary of the Cornwall Congregational Union from 1938 to 1946 , member of the Council of the Congregational Union of England and Wales from 1943 to 1947 , President of the Free Church Federal Council at Looe , Cornwall from 1939 to 1945 and at Deal from 1947 to 1948 and he is at present President of the Maldon and Dirk Free Church Council . 
In Freemasonry he is at present Provincial Grand Chaplain of the Province of Suffolk and a past Provincial Grand Chaplain of the Province of Cornwall . 
Mr. Nicholson , a widower , is to be married on August 14 in Workington to Miss Laurie Taylor , elder daughter of the late Captain John Taylor , for many years harbour master at Workington . 
Boltongate garden fete 
THE annual garden fete held in aid of the Boltongate Church funds last Saturday was again a big success and it brought in £178 . 
It was at Quarry Hill by permission of Mr. and Mrs. G. E. Shaw . 
The fete was opened by Mrs. M. Peat , of Silloth . 
She was introduced by Mr. Shaw and thanked by Mr. R. Brame and Miss Grindley , and also presented with a flowering plant by Miss Brenda Messenger . 
Buttonholes were presented to other members of the Committee by Jean Armstrong , Gillian Robinson , Christine Moore , Hazel Carruthers , Sylvia Temple , Anne Tudhope and Audrey Armstrong . 
The fancy dress carnival comprised three classes for the prettiest , comic and most original . 
It drew 18 competitors and was judged by Mrs. Peat . 
The goods on various well filled stalls were sold quickly , teas were provided and children 's sports followed . 
Holding on 
PAINTER Joe Jackson , aged 41 , rode a pedal cycle up Egremont main street with his small son " clinging to his back and holding on to him by the neck , " Whitehaven Bench heard on Thursday . 
When Sergt. Holdsworth stopped him and told him he would be reported Jackson , who lives at 9 , The Crescent , Smithfield , replied : " I am going to see the Inspector . 
You have got it in for me . " 
Jackson was not in Court when fined £1 for being one of two persons carried on a pedal cycle not adapted for the purpose . 
Curious visitors to Frizington main street on July 11 were seven cows , subsequently claimed by farmer Mossop Irving , of Steele Bank . 
" He said he had been unable to repair the fences in the field where the cattle had been grazing because an accident had disabled him , " said Inspector Tom Gresham in Whitehaven magistrates court on Thursday when Mossop was fined 30s for allowing the animals to stray . 
LOCAL WEDDINGS 
THERE was a large congregation in St. Joseph 's Church , Cockermouth , on Saturday , to witness the wedding of Miss Brigid Elizabeth Ball , daughter of Mr. and Mrs. E. Ball , of 41 , Sullart St. , Cockermouth , to Mr. Derek Cameron , son of Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Cameron , of Townscroft , Dearham . 
The Rev. Father Tootall officiated . 
Given in marriage by her father , the bride wore a gown of French lace over taffeta , a waist-length veil and coronet and carried a bouquet of red roses . 
There were four bridesmaids , Miss Freda Cameron , Miss Mary McKenzie , Miss Eleanor Waling and Miss Margaret Ball . 
Two were in lavender and two in blue flock nylon over taffeta . 
All carried Prayer Books and flower sprays . 
£16 1/2 MILLION ESTIMATES FOR EDUCATION Cheshire make provision for increased numbers 
IN the next financial year Cheshire Education Committee proposes to spend £16,499,935 , an estimate which represents an increase of £1,265,710 over the estimated figure for 1960 . 
This was agreed at the last meeting of the Committee when it was stated that the estimated income for the year was £1,459,020 . 
The difference between this and the expenditure has to be found from rates and taxes . 
Commenting on the proposal , Dr. J. G. Kellett , the County Director of Education , says that in formulating the estimates for 1961 , the Committee has had to make provision , not only for maintaining and improving the standards in the 568 schools and colleges throughout the county , but also for the large increase in the number of pupils in primary and secondary schools , and students undertaking further education . 
The number of pupils on the roll of primary schools is at present 79,720 and the estimated number next year is 80,755 , an increase of 1,035 . 
This increase is brought about by the natural increase in the County 's population and also by the continual migration of people into the County . 
Cheshire is attractive from the point of view of residence , and the development of industry within the County and in neighbouring areas means an ever-increasing influx of new population . 
Added to this the total population is increased by overspill developments . 
SMALLER CLASSES 
However , despite the continuing high level of the primary school population in Cheshire , considerable progress continues to be made , as a result of new schools and additional classrooms , in the direction of the elimination of over-sized classes ( i.e. classes with over 40 on roll ) . 
Whereas in 1957 the percentage of such classes was 32.9 , at September , 1960 , the percentage had been reduced to 23.6 . 
This is the lowest figure of any year since 1949 and compares favourably with the year 1953 , when the percentage of over-sized classes was 43.2 . 
It is noteworthy that the percentage of classes with between 30 and 40 on roll rises steadily and now comprises 38.0 of all primary school classes . 
There is also a continued rise in the percentage of classes with under 30 on roll . 
In 1953 the percentage of these was 27.7 , but at present it is 38.4 . 
The percentage of classes with under 40 on roll grew from the figure of 56.8 in 1953 to 76.4 in 1960 . 
MORE AT GRAMMAR SCHOOLS 
On the secondary side , the number of grammar school pupils will increase from 20,163 at present to 21,482 in 1961 . 
The increase is 1,319 pupils , which is the equivalent of two new grammar schools at over 600 pupils each . 
The number of secondary modern school pupils will remain at the high level of approximately 33,000 . 
This is due partly to the " bulge " which continues to pass through the secondary schools , but also , as in the case of primary schools , to the migration of population into the County and to the increasing number of pupils who are staying at secondary modern schools beyond the normal school-leaving age and in sixth-forms at grammar schools . 
AN ACHIEVEMENT 
It is interesting to note that in a period when the County is faced with such large increases of primary and secondary school pupils , it has been possible to complete the replacement of All-age schools by new secondary schools , and to build new grammar schools , so that appropriate secondary education is available throughout the County for all pupils according to their age , ability and aptitude . 
This in itself is a noteworthy achievement in a county with such a wide variety of conditions — rural and urban , agricultural and industrial , and residential . 
Also it should be noted that as well as the building of new grammar and secondary modern schools , good progress is being made with the improvement of facilities in existing grammar and secondary modern schools . 
In further education , provision is being made for new and improved technical colleges . 
Major extensions are now in course of construction at the Carlett Park ( Eastham ) , and Mid-Cheshire ( Hartford ) Central Colleges of Further Education at a cost of £465,000 and £300,000 respectively . 
EXTENSIONS 
Work is due to begin in February on a £260,000 extension at the North Cheshire College at Sale . 
Planning permission has just been received for the building of a Technical College at Hyde , and the estimated cost of this will be £398,500 , and a new College of Further Education at Crewe costing £600,000 is to be built by the Cheshire Authority in 1961/62 . 
There is also a steady growth in the number of students at universities and technical colleges . 
In the past five years there has been an increase of nearly 20 per cent . 
in the number of students attending Cheshire Technical Colleges , and this increase will continue over the next five years as the new and enlarged colleges come to completion . 
It is interesting to note that , at the present time , the County Education Committee is making grants to 1,565 university students and it is anticipated that there will be approximately 50 additional students receiving grants in 1961/62 . 
This is reflected in increased grants to students and increased fees at colleges of further education outside Cheshire which some County students attend . 
In total some 2,940 students are receiving financial aid for their training in Universities , Teachers ' Training Colleges , Technical Colleges and Schools of Art and Music . 
In conclusion it should be pointed out that , based on the net rate and grant-borne expenditure per thousand population , Cheshire 's expenditure for all branches of education service ( including primary , secondary and special schools , further education , the training of teachers , medical inspection and treatment , provision of milk and meals , the transport of pupils and agricultural education ) is £12,893 as opposed to the average of all counties in England and Wales of £13,220 . 
A-I THEME FOR ROYALTY PLAY 
" FORBIDDEN FLESH , " the controversial play at the Royalty Theatre next week , is by punch-packing author Eugene Hamilton . 
His previous play , " A Girl Called Sadie , " packed the Royalty on visits by two different touring companies . 
His new play deals with the question of artificial insemination . 
The author raises the query as to whether a father will feel the same towards a child obtained by these means as to one normally conceived . 
His leading character finds himself about to become a father to two different children , one through artificial insemination . 
On the one hand is the wife trying to tie him down to a secure suburban marriage , and on the other is Eily , the wild Irish girl played with flashing eyes and a tongue like a whip-lash by dark-haired Sarah Travis , who is herself Irish . 
Two points of interest to Cestrians . 
The play is set in Liverpool , where it takes place in the Irish quarter . 
And when it was first performed in Manchester , the Lord Mayor , who was invited to the premiere , made national news headlines by refusing to allow his 18-years-old daughter to attend . 
The play has since been banned in Eire because of its outspoken nature , although it has done capacity business in all the principal cities and towns of England , especially those with large Irish populations . 
At Chester it will be presented for adults only . 
IT IS EASY TO KEEP UP WITH THE JONES 'S IN SWEDEN 'S THINGWALL " NEWS and Advertiser " reader Mr. H. Arnold , who received his " News and Advertiser " " Spirit of Wirral " Calendar in Karlstad , Sweden , has written this article . 
TURNING over the " Spirit of Wirral " calendar I see that the February picture is of Thingwall whose Viking name was Tingralla . 
It is snowbound . 
I am writing this from another place once named Tingralla — there are others in Europe — which is also snowbound , but here the comparison stops . 
In 1584 King Charles the Ninth gave it a charter as a borough , after which it changed its name to Karlstad ( Charlestown ) . 
It became the seat of a bishop . 
Like many other Swedish towns of wooden buildings huddled together , it was burnt down . 
It has since been re-planned with wide streets and boulevards , and more fire-resisting buildings . 
It has important industries based on the forests ( timber , pulp and paper ) and is a celebrated centre for engineering . 
SEABORNE TRADE 
Excepting for about two months in each year commencing about now it has a seaborne trade through Lake Varen and the Trollhattan Canal . 
Ice put a stop to navigation last week , and traffic has to be routed by rail or road to and from ice-free ports such as Gottenburg , until the oncoming of spring . 
Although there are papers in neighbouring towns not more than forty miles away , Karlstad , with a population of 40,000 , supports two morning daily papers , one Conservative , the other Socialist . 
They are by no means solely " provincial " . 
For example , yesterday 's Conservative paper discusses in its leading article the effect of the Common Market on Swedish agriculture , mentioning several times the views of Mr. Woolley , the Cheshire farmer who is now chairman of the National Farmers ' Union . 
There is a good deal of interest in the advertising columns . 
A fortnight ago there were many " Acknowledgements " under which one-inch single column entries were inserted by individual postmen and lorry drivers collecting milk for the creameries thanking publicly all those who had given them Christmas boxes . 
Dog taxes became due on January 1st . 
The amount is fixed by local authorities and varies from place to place . 
Hereabouts the standard seems to be the equal of 55s. per dog over three months old . 
Official advertisements remind dog-owners that the charge will be doubled if it is not met by January 31st . 
Other authorities offer rewards for the extermination of pests — 27s. 6d. for a fox and 55s. for a mink . 
These animals are very destructive to poultry . 
Escapees from fur farms , they find abundant shelter in the forests . 
REFUSE IN BAGS 
There is no mystery about Council , health , water , fishery or other authorities ' proceedings . 
The agenda for forthcoming meetings appear as paid advertisements . 
Yesterday the Council of a small local town gave notice in a six-inch column advertisement that household rubbish must in future be put into paper bags before being put into the garbage bins . 
It claimed that in summer this would reduce the stench of decaying matter and in winter would lighten and speed up the work of dustmen as they would not have to dig frozen refuse from inside the bins . 
In more than one town the collected refuse is burnt under boilers which supply hot water to houses , thus cutting out the need for individual heating plants . 
TAX REGISTERS 
Folk interested in public affairs can learn a lot in Sweden . 
They can even learn that newsagents and booksellers sell annuals ( called taxation registers ) wherein everybody 's assessable income within the area of the authority is shown . 
It may be difficult for people in Britain to know if they are keeping up with the Jones 's . 
In Sweden they have only to look into the local taxation register to know whether or not they are keeping up with the Svenssons ( Swedish Jones 's ) . 
From Dee to Dublin was so difficult 
ONE of the most interesting features of local history is the way in which Wirral 's Deeside villages came to be regarded over the centuries , as the main ports for the Irish trade , not only locally , but for England . 
The only rival was Holyhead , but many travellers preferred the longer sea voyage to the difficult travel in reaching the Anglesey port . 
Except for the fact that Chester had been established at the head of the estuary , and when the river silted the Wirral villages were used as ports instead , it is probable that the estuary would never have gained any commerce . 
As a haven , a place for ships to shelter , the Dee shore of the peninsula was as an inhospitable place as it could possibly be . 
Shelter from westerly winds was virtually non-existent , but the worst fault from a shipping point of view was that craft could sail down the channel and so to the open sea only when the wind came from the easterly quarter . 