 EDF, one of Britain's Big Six power suppliers and a significant nuclear generator, admitted last night that the public had lost confidence in the energy industry and said that a Competition Commission inquiry might be needed to clear the air.  The surprise admission came as the French-owned company became the latest to raise its UK retail prices - putting up gas bills by more than 15% and electricity by 4.5% - bringing condemnation from consumer groups.  "We recognise there remains a widespread lack of understanding and suspicion of the industry as a whole, among the public, customers in general, politicians, regulators and others," said Vincent de Rivaz, chief executive of EDF Energy.  "It is important this perception is addressed. The energy challenges Britain faces are far too important and can only be addressed in a world with trust, open dialogue and mutual understanding.  "If a Competition Commission inquiry is necessary to build this trust, then it is a step that should be taken. We would welcome the opportunity to explore all the issues fully and openly. as a fair company, we have nothing to hide," he added.  EDF, the worst-performing energy firm in a recent customer satisfaction survey, said the tariff increases, which it blamed mainly on rising wholesale power costs, would be introduced on 10 November, taking the average dual-fuel household bill to almost ?1,300 a year.  Consumer Focus said the price rises - along with recent increases from ScottishPower, British Gas, and others - would mean "millions of people" would be cutting back on other essentials if they wanted to keep warm.  almost 7 million households - 27% of the UK total - are now said to be living in fuel poverty, defined as households spending more than 10% of their net income on fuel to heat their home.  The Consumer Credit Counselling Service warned that almost a third of people seeking its help in the first six months of this year were already in fuel poverty and this number could grow if energy bills continue to rise. For every 1% increase in gas and electricity bills, it is estimated a further 40,000 households are plunged  