 Saturday 27 august  Thunderball  (Terence Young, 1965)  3.05pm, ITV1  Bond of a slightly inferior vintage fourth time round: Sean Connery's 007 starts to struggle to keep his end up against growing gimmickry as suave spying gives way to hi-tech invention. But M, Q and co are all present, Spectre boss adolfo Celi and his man-eating sharks are worthwhile opponents, and there's plenty of well choreographed underwater action.  Sex and The City  (Michael Patrick King, 2008)  9.15pm, Channel 4  This first big-screen outing of the celebrated TV series is set several years on, with Sarah Jessica Parker's Carrie attempting to wed that Big boyfriend (Chris Noth), Cynthia Nixon's Miranda worrying about her pubes, Kristin Davis's Charlotte suffering from the runs, and Kim Cattrall's Samantha still chasing men, the gals simultaneously trying to empty New York's upmarket stores of all their clothes and shoes (buying, not looting, obviously).  The Bourne Supremacy  (Paul Greengrass, 2004)  10.15pm, ITV1  The middle part of the superbly crafted trilogy, with Paul Greengrass taking the directing reins from Doug Liman and driving the action along at a lethal rate. It's another relentlessly paced blend of convoluted hi-tech espionage and crunching violence, with Matt Damon in the career-defining role of amnesiac CIa assassin Jason Bourne.  Confetti  (Debbie Isitt, 2006)  11.10pm, BBC2  When lifestyle mag Confetti offers a ?500,000 house to the creators of the most original wedding plan, the competition is whittled down to three set of nuptials: two naturists rerunning adam and Eve, a tennis pair playing mixed singles and a Fred'n'Ginger-ish dance number for loving movie buffs. a gently humorous mockumentary.  a History Of Violence  (David Cronenberg, 2005)  1am, Film4  Tom Stall (Viggo Mortensen) seems an ordinary smalltown guy running a modest diner, until two hoods show up, and he dispatches them in short order. The publicity brings more heavies, more adept violence from Tom, and makes his wife Edie (Maria Bello) wonder who she's married to. It's a  brutal, top-notch thriller that wryly undermines the happy-families idyll.  Dial M For Murder  (alfred Hitchcock, 1954)  5am, TCM  Hitchcock apparently did not care much for this adaptation of Frederick Knott's Broadway hit, but out of his experiments - shooting the whole thing in one apartment in a sometimes disorientating 3D - comes a typically gripping thriller. Ray Milland is the past-it tennis star, planning to have his wife (Grace Kelly) murdered for her money; Kelly, moving from anxious to terrorised, is terrific, and it's loaded with claustrophobic suspense.  Sunday 28 august  The Queen  (Stephen Frears, 2006)  4.35pm, ITV1  an intelligent and moving account of the week in the life of the royal family following Diana's death: holed up in Balmoral, dazed at the news and bemused by the extraordinary outpouring of public grief, while public anger at their apparent indifference grows. Helen Mirren's magnificent, Oscar-winning performance commands sympathy for the Queen, and admiration for her dogged instinct for survival. Frears's excellent drama is also surprisingly funny.  The Da Vinci Code  (Ron Howard, 2006)  7.10pm, Channel 5  Howard's adaptation of Dan Brown's blockbuster contains most of the book's faults - including two-dimensional characters and a confusing plot that has Tom Hanks's Harvard prof and French cryptographer audrey Tautou chasing hither and yon for the Holy Grail - and adds a new one: it's so gloomy you can rarely see what's going on.  Hot Fuzz  (Edgar Wright, 2007)  9pm, ITV2  Their hilarious debut with the zombie-slacker comedy Shaun Of The Dead was a hard act to follow, but Wright and his co-writer and co-star Simon Pegg pulled it off with this fall-about parody of the US action movie. It's set in a quiet Somerset village, but that doesn't stop odd-couple cops Pegg and Nick Frost reworking every cliche in the Hollywood handbook.  The Fugitive  (andrew Davis, 1993)  10.15pm, ITV1  Harrison Ford takes on David Jansen's TV role as poor doc Richard Kimble, fitted up for his wife's murder by a mysterious one-armed man, and interminably on the run while trying to prove his innocence. Ford looks suitably hunted and haunted, and gallops through the big action set-pieces, but Tommy Lee Jones as the wily marshal on his trail is the real star.  The Hours  (Stephen Daldry, 2002)  10.40pm, BBC2  Incisively adapted by David Hare (who also wrote for Daldry in The Reader) from Michael Cunningham's novel, this is a fascinating tale of three women, in three eras. In 1923 Richmond, Virginia Woolf (Nicole Kidman, in much-remarked upon prosthetic nose) is stifled and struggling to write; in the 1950s, Julianne Moore's all-american mom Laura is on the verge of breakdown; and in the present day, Meryl Streep's Clarissa is a New York book editor organising a party for aids-stricken poet Ed Harris. Shadowed by suicide, the lives and emotions of the women interweave in an emotionally draining study of love and the pursuit of happiness.  Monday 29 august  Mutiny On The Bounty  (Lewis Milestone, 1962)  1.35pm, Channel 5  This spectacular screening of the infamous 1787 uprising palls before the compulsive backstage story. Production was nightmarish: the Bounty turned up late, Carol Reed was paid off and replaced by Milestone, and superstar Marlon Brando exercised lordly powers over all. a true Hollywood epic, with Brando's affected gentility struggling for screen space against Trevor Howard's cold-fish Bligh and Richard Harris's short-fused gunner's mate.  The Incredibles  (Brad Bird, 2004)  3.25pm, BBC1  The Pixar people behind the Toy Stories, Wall-E et al hit on another sublimely crafted, funny and touching animated adventure with this super tale of superheroes. after years of retirement occasioned by legal writs, Mr Incredible (very strong) and his wife, Elastigirl (figure it out), come bounding back into action to save the world from supervillain Syndrome. Incredible is the word for it.  Good Will Hunting  (Gus Van Sant, 1997)  11.45pm, BBC3  The film that showed hot young actors Matt Damon and Ben affleck could write, too: they scripted this well-crafted drama about Damon's Will Hunting, a university janitor-cum-maths whiz who is far brighter than the students. He has to learn to trust himself and others, such as Minnie Driver's loving Brit student, and Oscar-winning Robin Williams's volatile shrink.  Tuesday 30 august  The Boy In The Striped Pyjamas  (Mark Herman, 2008)  9pm, BBC2  Two boys sit on opposite sides of a barbed-wire fence: on the outside is Nazi commandant's son Bruno (asa Butterfield) and on the inside, the Jewish boy in the striped pyjamas, Shmuel (Jack Scanlon). Their friendship is a powerful counterpoint to the looming evil of the Holocaust, in an affecting adaptation of John Boyne's novel.  I Was a Male War Bride  (Howard Hawks, 1949)  3.55am, Channel 4  a late flowering of the screwball comedy genre, featuring a sparkling combination of Cary Grant and ann Sheridan. In postwar occupied Germany, he's a suave French officer, she's a bright-as-military-brass US lieutenant, and it requires hilarious tactics before the pair can unite their forces.  Wednesday 31 august  Even Cowgirls Get The Blues  (Gus Van Sant, 1993)  1.05am, TCM  Van Sant's version of Tom Robbins's cult 70s novel is every bit as wacky and infuriating as the book. Uma Thurman stars as Sissy, who uses her unfeasibly large thumbs to hitchhike around the States. The cast features such 60s alumni as Ken Kesey and William S Burroughs: pure hippy-dippiness.  all about My Mother  ( 