 Power:  1707  Scotland, like England, is ruled by the last of the Stuart monarchs, Queen anne. But power is held locally by the Queen's commissioner in parliament, the Duke of Queensberry (above), credited with procuring Scotland's vote in favour of union.  2011  Scotland, like England, is ruled by David Cameron - who at least has a good Scots name in his favour. But power is held locally by alex "Wee Eck" Salmond (above), and by a Scottish parliament whose building incorporates his predecessor's home, Queensberry House.  Parliament:  1707  145 nobles and 160 commoners sit in the Scottish parliament, representing Whig and Tory, Jacobite and Cameronian interests.  2011  129 elected MSPs and two law officers - the lord advocate and the solicitor general - sit in the Scottish parliament, representing SNP, Labour, Tory - oh, and vestigial Liberal Democrat - interests.  accountability:  1707  In the words of Walter Scott: "When we had a king, a chancellor, and a parliament o' our ain, we could aye peeble them wi' stones when they werena gude bairns." Thus are Scotland's rulers kept in check in the 18th century.  2011  In the words of the News of the World: "Mr Sheridan has been jailed for lying to a court to secure victory when he sued (us) for defamation in 2006." Thus are Scotland's rulers kept in check in the 21st century.  Population:  1707  One million, of whom 25% live in the Highlands - an area soon to be depopulated by sheep farming.  2011  Five million, of whom 7% live in the Highlands - an area  now fast repopulating thanks to universal broadband.  Religion:  1707  The 20-year-old student Thomas aikenhead is accused  of blasphemy and hanged, for arguing in a private  conversation that the Holy Scriptures are "a rhapsodie  of faigned and ill-invented nonsense".  2011  The Celtic manager Neil Lennon is sent bullets in the post and attacked during an SPL game against Hearts, because "I am a high-profile Catholic," he says, "and some people don't like that in this country."  Diet:  1707  In the so-called "ill years" of the 1690s, Scotland suffered repeated famines and major crop failures, depriving the population of anything resembling a nourishing diet.  2011  In the so-called "Irn-Bru and Tunnock's Tea Cake years" of the 2000s, only 23% of the population of Scotland meet the recommended daily intake of five or more portions of fruit and vegetables.  Quality of life:  1707  Edinburgh is notorious for its filth, its noxious odours and its residents' habit of throwing raw sewage from upstairs windows with only a cry of "gardyloo!" (from the French gardez l'eau) for 