 SCOTLaND S largest city is to create thousands of green energy jobs as the UK emerges from the downturn, a report has found.  Glasgow, which was once known as the second city of the Empire for its industrial strengths, is on course to repeat its success in the field of renewables.  It came after HSBC named it as the first industrial  super city  north of the Border thanks to its burgeoning base in research and engineering expertise.  The banking giant identified it along with Bristol as one of two new business powerhouse cities in its latest Future of Business report. It revealed the downturn is a catalyst for trailblazing green businesses and entrepreneurs.  Europe s biggest windfarm, the 140-turbine Whitelees in East Renfrewshire, and the 152-turbine Clyde windfarm near Glasgow, which began production this week, were cited as examples of successes. Other ventures include the Centre of Engineering Excellence in Renewable Energy, set up with Strathclyde University, that is co-ordinating a partnership between Scottish and Southern Energy and Mitsubishi to develop low-carbon energy sources.  Organisers of the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games have also pledged to make the event the most environmentally friendly in history. Other projects that won praise include Sustainable Glasgow, which aims to make the city one of the most green in Europe within a decade.  The report described Glasgow as a  leading international force in the renewable energy sector .  Jim Whyte, who was involved in the research for Future Laboratory, said: Glasgow is using the opportunity of renewable energy to revitalise its traditional strength in engineering. The rise in offshore windfarms is fuelling growth already with more expected as countries across the world aim to reduce their dependency on fossil fuels. It is the city s research capabilities that will ensure its position at the forefront of developments.  Strathclyde University, previously anderson s College, where the first electricity-g 