 THE SNP have published their  long-awaited report card of four years in office, asserting the claim   much-derided by opponents   that as a minority Government they achieved 84 out of 94 main pledges.  Rival parties were quick to denounce the document yesterday, but detailed analysis of flaws in the SNP claims were much slower to emerge and less clear even than the SNP s original claims about what constituted headline pledges.  SNP Deputy First Minister Nicola Sturgeon insisted:  Our achievements range from freezing the Council Tax, delivering 1000 more police officers, introducing the Small Business Bonus and restoring free education, to pledges such as meeting the cancer waiting times target   which the previous administration failed to do and passing world-leading climate change legislation.  In four years   despite being a minority government   84 of these headline pledges have been delivered. Of the other 10, some   such as the referendum on independence and scrapping the Edinburgh Trams   were blocked by all the main opposition parties in the Scottish Parliament.  Of those self-confessed failures, the SNP claimed three   Local Income Tax, scrapping Edinburgh Trams and holding an independence referendum   were directly linked to the inability to win a Holyrood vote as a minority Government, while others such a using the Fossil Fuel Levy money were vetoed by the Treasury.  Five of the failures came in education but they insist that on nursery education, primary class sizes and extra physical education progress was made short of their pledges.  Scottish Labour Leader Iain Gray said:  The SNP promised to abolish Council Tax, write off student debt, give grants to  first-time buyers, maintain teacher numbers, reduce class sizes   all promises made, all promises broken.  Under the SNP, child poverty and unemployment are up, but teachers and classroom assistants are down. Their only approach in this election is to ask for people s votes by way of thanks for things they haven t even managed to do.  Murdo Fraser, Scottish Conservative deputy leader, said:  People will not be fooled by this document. They remember that i 