 IES, one of Scotland s most successful technology export companies, has made a strategic breakthrough in the high-growth southeast asian market, with a supply deal with building consultancy Jurong International of Singapore.  The company claims the deal puts it on course to double its turnover to ?10 million within the next two years.  a spin-off from Strathclyde University led by building physicist Don McLean, one of 12 PhDs on the firm s worldwide payroll, Integrated Environmental Solutions designs and markets complex software that monitors the environmental performance of buildings.  The business sector is seen as poised for exponential growth as global building standards become more stringent in response to environmental concerns.  The significance of this six-figure deal is not the size, but its place in the strategic plan,  McLean said.  Teaming up with a local company in Singapore, and being perceived as the market leaders, helps make us the main builder of compliance tools for Singapore, and gives us an opportunity to control the market as premier supplier of product. Other countries in that territory such as Thailand and Indonesia will then follow.  Based at the West of Scotland Science Park in Glasgow, IES sells to 130 countries and has offices throughout the US, Europe, australia and asia. In the last  two years, with recession blighting the UK construction market, the firm has dramatically increased its exports from 20% of total turnover to 65%.  IES s confidence that it can continue to double turnover every two years is based on its proven success at establishing its product as the industry standard for architects and construction firms. McLean said the firm was working towards a strategic goal of hundreds of millions in annual turnover.  I have always seen incredible potential for this business in that  we are recognised in the US and elsewhere as market leaders. The last 30 years I have been in this business have been about creating the market and we are already way way ahead.  The development we have put in place means that we would be getting ?1000 a year from each year [an ongoing revenue stream] in each building we are installed in. If you multiply that by the millions of buildings you are installed in then it doesn t take long to reach a billion in turnover.  McLean added:  Megalomania is a perfectly acceptable form of business plan.  The asia-Pacific region is seen as a continuing bright spot for the construction industry.  according to market intelligence agency ICIS, construction growth in India, China and the rest of asia Pacific, Latin america, the 