 In next month s Scottish elections the direction of the economy must be the defining issue of the campaign. The three previous elections have taken place with booming UK, European and global economies, with Scotland sharing significantly in that growth. Now we face a choice between two competing visions for Scotland in tough times. My personal view is that Scottish Labour s vision of a high-skilled, high-value economy rooted within the United Kingdom will lead to prosperity and growth.  The Tory/Liberal Democrat Coalition has embarked on massive and risky cuts in public expenditure which, as well as threatening valued public services, also takes money off the high street. Coupled with the surging price of commodities and foodstuffs, Scottish families and businesses face a toxic combination of lower income at a time of higher costs. We need to get the basics right in Scotland. The choice is clear: either we invest for success or we manage decline. There is little middle ground.  While we have to cut out unnecessary waste and we should do so vigorously, the only way forward for Scotland is to grow our way out of the current economic crisis and that is the central tenet of Labour s economic approach. This requires careful investment in people, transport and technology infrastructures and while the methods of executing such a policy may be different in Westminster and Holyrood, the central approach is the right one.  I know at first hand the challenges of growing a business from scratch and how you need all the support that you can get. When I started Peoples 28 years ago, I struggled to raise the necessary funds; regrettably I am still waiting a response from one of the clearing banks! The then Scottish Development agency and Bank of Scotland were my core funders along with two London-based venture capital banks.  Fast forward to the present, and I would be reasonably sure that if I was to approach the SDa   Scottish Enterprise as it is now known   with the same business plan, I doubt I would get past an initial meeting. It is therefore heartening that Scottish Labour will look at re-aligning the priorities of Scottish Enterprise to encompass a broader range of companies to address the gap beyond the Business Gateway stage.  Small businesses in Scotland face continuing difficulties in getting credit extensions at competitive rates, even when backed by a proven track record. That s also why I welcome Scottish Labour s plan to use the Scottish Investment Bank to match-fund from Europe to support small business when they need it most. Think of it: if only 20% of the 200,000 single-handed enterprises in Scotland moved to take on a single member of staff, it would create an additional 40,000 jobs in the Scottish economy.  although I now employ more than 400 people across the UK and have built a leading brand, the role of sole traders and small business as a driver of the economy cannot be underestimated. Small businesses play a significant part of my business model. The commercial division of my company relies heavily on supplying to small businesses and I also rely on small businesses to source specialist parts and to purchase goods and services from me.  Scotland needs radical and new ideas to support that sector. I have been impressed by Iain Gray s thoughtful and serious approach. The plans for a new Plus One  scheme, delivered through Business Gateway, will assist with payroll, personnel and legal issues and will remove major barriers to businesses hiring their first employee. Nobody can kid me that being in employment is tougher or more soul-destroying than being on the dole. I spent nine of the 11 months it took me to raise my working capital in that hell. a scheme such as this would have helped me hugely in the early days when I was starting out.  The role of apprenticeships is vital too and Scottish Labour must get real credit for making this issue their own. Innovation is key to a coherent apprenticeship strategy. We need more flexibility, allowing smaller employers to pool apprentices with others as work ebbs and flows. Firms need to be able to deploy their resources strategically and this would help challenge the perception held by some firms that taking on an apprentice is too risky for a small firm.  If we are to grow our economy, we need to equip our workforce with the skills employers need today and predict the skills we will need a decade from now. I am worried about the twin problems of rising long-term youth unemployment, which has risen 220% in the last four years. Only a few years ago we had significant skills shortages in most sectors.  as the economy recovers we can expect them to return. It s not hard to imagine a scenario where we have lots of vacancies but can t fill them because we don t have people with the right skills. That is why I support the Future Jobs Fund where employers are supported to take on an employee who d otherwise be unemployed and I would want to see greater penetration in the private sector. Scotland cannot afford another lost generation who have never experienced work because they don t have the skills. Scotland needs to continue to be  open for business  for international investors and indigenous start-ups alike. We have some of the best universities in the world with academics and researchers of international renown. However, we haven t done enough to foster links between business and industry and, in particular, developing partnerships of universities can develop revenue streams.  Scotland needs political leaders with vision and ambition, people who are prepared to talk big and act big. Iain Gray s plan to double the value of exports over 10 years speaks to my vision for Scottish manufacturing. Long gone are the days when businesses like mine sold cars made in Scotland; those older industries have given way to new ones. The key for Scotland s success will be to capture the jobs they bring.  When the oil industry first came to Scotland, some seven in 10 jobs in the supply chain were based here. The similar figure for today s renewable industry is closer to one in 10. If we are to capitalise on tomorrow s big technologies, we need to up our game significantly. Time was that the words  made in Scotland were the most valuable part of products exported. It is right that Scotland s aim is to recreate the value of that brand. We must set our sights high.  Not all our jobs will be in the high-skill, high-value sector. Scotland needs to get building again. The construction industry was the first to enter the downturn and in previous recessions it has been the first to leave. First-time buyers are essential to kick-start the house-building sector. I do not believe this can happen at the pace necessar 