 If you like to do your bit for the environment, you don't have to stop when it comes to improving your home. There are lots of lovely, ethically minded companies out there who have developed high quality products to keep your home beautiful and your emissions low. One of the best places to start is to think long-term; as oil supplies dwindle, we could all be using natural energy to heat and light our homes in future - and it could save us money, too. Solar panels are a good investment and even if you don't intend to stay in your home long, they add to the house's value when you sell. although there are lots of companies who will install them for you, this is one of the most expensive parts of the operation, so why not buy some panels and install them yourself? You can buy a starter pack for around ?2,000 to ?3,000 and you can get advice from the Government's Department of Energy &amp; Climate Change (go to www.decc.gov.uk and type "solar panels" in the search box). You can even, if you're a budding scientist, build your own panels, though for many this will be a step too far. If you're keen to have a go, however, look at www.earth4energy.com.   You'll need a large, preferably south-facing expanse of roof and the panels should be positioned at a 20-50 degree angle. Decide if your roof has the correct slope to allow you to install them on the roof itself, or if you need them to be free standing on a frame - on flat roofs, for example. There are good resources to take you through the process step-by-step at www.solarpanelmanual.com and the Energy Saving Trust (www.energysavingtrust.org.uk). Once the panels are installed, you'll need to hook them up to your home's electrical system - best to get expert advice here. Then you can choose to heat your water alone, or add lighting, too.  another great green DIY project is to install a Sedum roof. Little plants that thrive with little or no soil, Sedum can create a living environment in an area that would otherwise be barren, attracting insects and birds, eating bad carbon dioxide and helping create biodiversity. It can be used on flat roofs of houses, sheds, stables and garages and requires little or no maintenance or mowing. Buy mats already sown with plants (www.enviromat.co.uk) that arrive ready to lay on your chosen surface and within days you'll have a new green space for your home.  Inside the house, there are lots of ways to improve and freshen without resource to polluting chemicals. Eco-friendly paint is now readily available from many stores and online retailers and it comes in many colours and finishes - see the great range by Earthborn Paints (www.earthbornpaints.co.uk). You can also add an ingenious insulating paint additive to create a thermal insulating layer and cut fuel bills. Choose a re-usable paint tray made of cardboard, not plastic and paint it on with brushes that have bamboo handles, all from Nigel's Eco Store (www.nigelsecostore.com).  Insulation is another great way to save energy that an avid DIY-er can take on. Loft insulation is a relatively simple task that can be achieved over a weekend. Look for insulating material that's at least 300mm thick and made from an environmentally friendly substance such as surplus newspapers, recycled glass, hemp or sheep's wool, which you may find in your local B&amp;Q; or check out Black Mountain Insulation (www.blackmountaininsulation.com). Draughty gaps between floorboards should be filled, as you can lose around 15 per cent of the heat in your home through a badly fitting floor. an environmentally friendly and unobtrusive sealant can give you a draught-free floor in hours (www.nigelsecostore.com) and you can then re-finish the floor with a water-based floor varnish or wax (www.auro.co.uk) . Then it's time to tackle other draughty places. Buy and fit a letter-box draught excluder, use insulating tape around poorly fitting doors and windows and put chimney balloons in fireplaces you don't use.  Done all that? To complete your green home, furnish using reclaimed, recycled and environmentally friendly substances. Bamboo flooring is a more sustainable alternative to hardwood (www.bambooflooringcompany.com). Reclaimed teak protects forests in Indonesia from being cut down and you can buy furniture that is resilient, durable and has a beautiful patina of age. Look for wardrobes, cabinets, tables and chairs from companies such as Raft (www.raftfurniture.co.uk). Or go retro and buy second-hand kitchen cabinets from a site such as Preloved (www.preloved.co.uk).  There's something for everyone, whether you want to paint a wall or build a completely eco-friendly house. and with excellent resources available for those who want to keep our homes fresh and green and who want to reduce our energy bill and carbon footprint all in one go, what's not to love?  SIX OF THE BEST ECO PRODUCTS  Taschelini Little Bag  This cute and colourful bag (pictured) is made from 100 per cent recycled plastic and can be used to store all your DIY essentials. Get hold of several colours, colour-code your collection, and you'll never lose a tool again! Brilliantly versatile, it can also be used as a vase or a cute gift bag for a house-warming gift.  Price: ?4.99  From: www.homegardenliving.co.uk  Cardboa 