 Scattered across an emerald green sweep of Pembrokeshire countryside are a handful of rustic-looking dwellings: some have turf roofs, others smoothly sculpted cob walls; finely wrought hinges adorn massive wooden doors and the comforting smell of wood smoke rises from stove chimneys. Fat hens scratch for grubs and grain and children have the run of the land, climbing trees and making dens.  This is Lammas eco-village, Britain's first low-impact, genuinely low emissions settlement, on track to provide three quarters of its inhabitants' food, water and energy needs from its own land and about to celebrate its second birthday since winning planning permission.  The village is completely "off grid" with no mains water, gas or electricity. Most of the nine proposed homesteads are now under way and three are complete; it is a model for possible future ways of living as energy costs rocket and concerns about climate change grow.  One resident, Jasmine Dale is currently enjoying a bumper strawberry crop. "We've got so many I don't know what to do with them, the children go foraging in the strawberry plants whenever they want," she says. The vegetable patches are bursting with sweetcorn, spinach, beans and squash. It appears, on the surface, to be an earthly paradise.  But there is trouble in paradise and the trouble could have a fatal effect on the whole concept of "low impact" living, or, as its exponents call it: "living for a living".  Earlier this month, Pembrokeshire County Council issued summonses against some of the pioneers for breaching building regulations. Breaches relate to fire hazards, outside lavatories, the use of ladders for staircases and the uncertain specification of some of the recycled materials the homes incorporate.  The summonses are a huge blow for the residents of Lammas, most of them families with young children.  One resident, Cassie Lishman, mother-of-three, who has built a pink cob reciprocal-framed roundhouse says she is in breach for her cotton ceiling and for the lack of a plastic radon barrier under her handmade earthen floor.  "as for my cob bath, which is heated from underneath with a fire, well the inspectors just didn't know what to make of it." She says there is "no way" she is going to dig up her floor "to put a piece of plastic under it. We're in an untenable situation. There are huge tensions between building regs and low-impact living."  Some materials such as the timber from their woodland and recycled windows do not have standardised ratings recognised by inspectors.  Jasmine's home does not comply because the composting lavatory is not inside the house and there is no mains-connected fire alarm. "How can we have a mains-connected fire alarm if we have no mains?" she asks. "We need to start a debate about an alternative building code for low-impact homes."  It took Lammas pioneer Paul Wimbush four years and a planning appeal to win permission for the village. He and other residents like Simon Dale have built their own homes, with help from volunteers who have come from all over the world to support the project.  Simon has already had experience building a low-impact home, which nests in a hillside in another part of west Wales and which he used as a model for some of the features of the Lammas homes.  Part of the planning permission, which was won on appeal in august 2009, is that within five years, residents should source 75 per cent of their water, fuel and food, from the 76-acre site. "Water is fine as there is a spring on the land," says Jasmine. "We make enough electricity from solar panels to power a laptop, charge a mobile phone and keep the lights on. None of us have televisions." The village is about to switch on a micro hydro turbine which will provide further electricity.  Despite the revolutionary ideals of Lammas, the village's inhabitants are ordinary people: teachers, graphic designers, engineers and craftsmen who want to "live lightly on the land".  Planning permission requires they earn an income from their plots and they plan to do so by rearing Christmas geese, making and selling willow products, growing rare herbs and keeping milk-producing sheep.  Some now are wondering whether their dreams of a simpler life are to be wrecked by rules made for standard brick-and-mortar houses, not sculpted mud biodegradable ones. "a house can be safe and wellbuilt without complying with building regulations," says Cassie.  In a statement, the county council confirmed it has issued summonses. "although planning permission was granted, plot owners in the Lammas Eco village are still required to meet building regulations. Failure to co 