 The world's largest defence company is to establish a cyber security division in Britain to counter the growing threat from digital attacks.  Lockheed Martin will open its Security Intelligence Centre at Farnborough in Hampshire next week and expects to employ up to 300 people there by 2015.  The american company is hoping to challenge rivals such as BaE Systems, EaDS and Thales, which already provide cyber protection in the UK.  Cyber attack has been identified as one of the four most serious threats to national security as amateur hackers and criminal gangs, as well as nations, look to exploit system weaknesses.  according to a recent report from the Cabinet Office, cyber crime costs British business about ?21 billion a year. This includes ?9.2 billion from the theft of intellectual property and a further ?7.6 billion from industrial espionage. Lockheed Martin, which builds fighter jets and missiles, is one of the most frequently attacked companies in the world and suffered a severe attack on its systems earlier this year.  The Farnborough facility, which has cost ?2.5 million to build, will initially focus on protecting Lockheed's operations in Britain and its work for the Government. The company works with National air Traffic Services to provide air traffic control equipment and software, military equipment and support (including for Trident nuclear missiles), and also manages the census. However, the company expects to offer its cyber security services to private sector customers once the facility has been established. Lockheed cyber intelligence analysts will examine attacks by breaking them into phases, called the "kill chain", which allows them to identify patterns and develop strategies to protect against the attacks.  Giri Sivanesan, Lockheed's head of cyber in the UK, said: "There's a growing realisation at government level of the impact this growing threat could have on individuals, business and the national infrastructure."  The scale of the cyber threat was demonstra 