 Today  Thomas Cook will report widening seasonal losses of about ?170 million in the first half of the year, about ?40 million worse than in the same period last year. There will be a ?20 million hit from the political unrest in Egypt and Tunisia and a similar impact from the later timing of Easter this year. TUI Travel, the travel company's bigger rival, is tipped to report similar trends the following day.  Lonmin is expected to continue its recovery with profits of about $247 million for the six months to the end of March when it reports today. However, analysts are concerned that the platinum producer may be forced to cut its full-year 2011 production target of 750,000 ounces amid recent concerns about worker safety in its South african mines. It sold 706,000 ounces of platinum in 2010.  Centrica publishes its trading update on the same day as its annual meeting. analysts at Investec expect the update to be relatively upbeat, particularly as they think that a referral of the industry to the Competition Commission is looking unlikely. Centrica will also present to the Energy and Climate Change Committee evidence sessions on Ofgem's Retail Market Review this week.  Tuesday  BG Group's first-quarter results are expected to show pre-tax profits of $2.2 billion, a 12 per cent increase on last year, after a surge in commodity prices. Production is predicted to be down slightly as a result of disruption to its operations in Tunisia and maintenance activity in the North Sea. The chief executive Frank Chapman will be questioned on the oil windfall tax.  InterContinental Hotels Group is tipped to report further signs of recovery in the first quarter as slowdown in the building of new hotels during the recession, in core markets such as america, has helped to push up demand. The Holiday Inn and Crowne Plaza operator is forecast to announce operating profits up from $83 million to about $110 million.  Wednesday  HSBC's chief executive Stuart Gulliver is expected to unveil a cost-cutting drive at the bank's British retail division as part of its strategy review. Investors in  Prudential will be hoping that the insurer follows Standard Life and Legal &amp; General into a roaring start to the year as Britain's biggest insurer reports on first-quarter trading, likely to be driven by asia.  The Restaurant Group, operator of the Garfunkel's and Frankie &amp; Benny's chains, is expected to tell shareholders at its annual meeting that its like-for-like sales growth, running at 3 per cent after the first two months, may have slowed as poor cinema attendances hit its outlets on leisure parks. But total sales are likely to be strong as new openings kick in.  Thursday  BT will issue its fourth-quarter and full-year results. analysts at Deutsche Bank predict a headline decrease of 4.1 per cent, largely because of tougher competition in global services and weaker wholesale growth. a full-year dividend of 7.2p is expected. Evidence of consumers signing up to superfast broadband in droves will be  