 Iain Gray has made an unashamed appeal to traditional Labour voters in Scotland with a party manifesto that offers a vision of full employment and a pledge to launch a full-scale attack on youth joblessness.  The manifesto, launched yesterday by the Scottish Labour leader at Clydebank College, contains about ?1 billion of spending pledges over the next four years but also claims that, despite a declining Scottish budget, Labour could find savings of ?2.2 billion over the same period.  The document, constructed around the life and career experiences of seven Scots, is aimed at what the party says are the everyday concerns and aspirations of voters, and carries a heavy emphasis on creating jobs, tackling poverty and protecting public services.  It also plays to the party's key election theme that only Labour, rather than the SNP, can lead the fight against the cuts in public services and benefits instituted by the Conservative-led coalition at Westminster.  The party's headline pledge is to abolish youth unemployment in Scotland over the next four years and also to create 250,000 jobs and apprenticeships in the next decade.  This would be done through creating 10,000 jobs and training places, courtesy of a Scottish Future Jobs Fund, 120,000 apprenticeship places over four years, 60,000 "green" jobs and apprenticeships and doubling the value of Scottish exports to create a further 10,000 jobs.  There would also be a major effort on job creation in the small business sector and the construction industry as well as the funding of 1,000 school specialists to improve literacy among school-leavers. Labour would also invest in key industries such as life sciences, tourism, food and drink, technology and renewable energy.  Mr Gray called the plan "bold and ambitious" and described it as the party's "core purpose and driving vision".  The jobs pledge would be paid for through public sector reforms that would involve major savings, thanks to the merging of police forces and fire services, the integration of social care, shared services across local authorities and sundry other public sector efficiencies.  Frontline services would be protected, Mr Gray said.  But the SNP said that Labour's manifesto was a "damp squib", and argued that Scotland was the only part of the UK with rising employment and falling unemployment.  John Swinney, the SNP government's Finance Secretary, said that Labour's "economic incompetence" had caused the recession and high unemployment in the first place. "They have zero credibility on jobs", said Mr Swinney.  "People will put far more store on Labour's failed record than on Iain Gray's hypocrisy and empty rhetoric."  as expected, the Labour manifesto also highlights the party's promise to freeze council tax for the next two years and not to impose a graduate contribution on Scottish students - also SNP promises.  Mr Gray reiterated plans for mandatory six-month jail sentences for anyone caught carrying a knife. He said that Labour would set aside ?60 million over three years to pay for the extra prison places but also claimed that there was existing spare capacity in the country's jails.  There would also be a National Care Service to take on elderly care responsibilities from councils and there would be curbs on the pay and bonuses of high-earners in the public sector, including government ministers.  On higher education, Mr Gray sidestepped questions on why he had preferred to abide by the lower Scottish government estimate of the future funding gap between the university sectors in Scotland and England, after the increase in fees south of the Border. Labour has rejected the claims of university principals that the funding gap would be more than ?200 million rather than the ?93 million projected by SNP ministers. But Mr Gray emphasised that as First Minister he would find the cash required no matter the eventual size of the gap. He said: "a commitment is a commitment."  The party is also offering a "Scottish living wage" of ?7.15 an hour in the public sector. On health, Labour is also promising to cut cancer waiting times in half and to protect NHS jobs, with no compulsory redundancies fo 