 aradical new MBa programme seeks to create a generation of industry leaders sensitive to the impact of business on the environment and society. The One Planet MBa began at the University of Exeter Business School this autumn.  Professor Malcolm Kirkup, director of the programme, says: "We want to create agents of change, people who can go out and make a difference - do something within companies to improve the decisions that are being made and develop more sustainable strategies.  "Three years ago we had a choice. We could develop a sustainable pathway through our existing MBa or have the One Planet MBa. We chose the latter because, if we really want to change management education, there cannot be an alternative programme. We also want to encourage other universities around the world to launch such degrees.''  Exeter was well placed to create the degree because its special areas of research and scholarly expertise include climate change, the environment, renewable energy and waste management.  "Open Planet is a challenge to the traditional MBa,'' Kirkup says. "It is based on different assumptions, notably that resources on this planet are limited and business needs to respond to that. We need managers and leaders in the future who are more focused on the environment and the impact of business and how we can be more sustainable rather than focusing on short-term profit.''  The MBa has been developed in partnership with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), which is helping big corporations around the globe to lessen their impact on the environment. It wants future managers and leaders to think more about the environment when making business decisions. The WWF gives the MBa course access to its technical specialists and many contacts in global companies. It also offers student placements in projects around the world.  The course, which is the first of its kind in the UK, embeds the idea of sustainability throughout its programme and not just in its elective modules. accounting, one of its core modules, does not just look at the financial figures but also meas 