 Not for nothing was the grizzly bear called Ursus horribilis in Latin. The beasts can weigh a third of a tonne and run at 35mph. They also have filthy tempers and will eat almost anything - humans included.  Now, thanks to a landmark court ruling, more americans can look forward to calling them neighbours.  Since 1975 the grizzly has been listed as threatened under US Federal law, which makes hunting them illegal. For the past five years, however, the US Government's Fish and Wildlife Service has argued that the species has become so abundant in the Greater Yellowstone region of the Rocky Mountains that protection should be withdrawn.  This week, conservationists won a milestone victory when a court ruled against the Government by deciding that the bears are endangered by climate change. The judgment makes the grizzly only the second species after the polar bear to earn protection in recognition of harm caused by global warming.  It also means that hunting is off the cards for now, which is good news for the bears but will heighten the anxieties of many humans. as one of the judges in the case noted, the region around Yellowstone, which includes parts of Montana, Idaho and Wyoming, is a "living laboratory for the coexistence of people and grizzlies in close proximity".  The grizzly once lived as far east as the Dakotas and as far south as Texas. Only relatively recently was it driven to the mountains by human hunters.  Over the past 35 years grizzly populations have rebounded in their mountain redoubts and there are signs that they are seeking to reclaim lost ground. Experts say they are appearing in habitats where they have not been seen for generations. In Yellowstone the population has tripled to about 600 and their range has expanded nearly 50 per cent.  Tales of stolen chickens and dead sheep are testament to their spread. Towns have erected bear-proof fences around primary schools. Reports abound of housewives being confronted by ursine invaders.  In July, a grizzly killed a hiker in Yellowstone when he and his wife surprised the bear and her cubs - the first such killing for 25 years.  The rise in encounters between bears and humans has led to record action by wildlife officials. about 75 grizzlies were killed or removed from the wild last year.  The irony is that the fate of the fearsome grizzly depends largely on a tiny beetle. The bears eat everything from trout and elk to moths andrubbish, but for the fat reserves that see them through the winter they rely on the nuts of the whitebark pine, a tree that grows at high elevations. Warmer temperatures have brought an outbreak of mountain pine beetles, a pest that has spread to higher slopes and killed millions of acres of whitebark pine.  according to conservationists, the bears are being forced to forage i 