 as the old saying goes, it's an ill wind that blows no good and it is a saying that air Partner would agree with. The supplier of planes at short notice to governments, companies and wealthy individuals did well this year out of the Fukushima nuclear disaster in Japan and the arab spring. Now though, the wind may be turning against it.  The company said yesterday that because of the financial turmoil in the eurozone, the trading environment was "very difficult" with government and corporate budgets increasingly squeezed. Revenues from its main division, which supplies larger commercial aircraft, are lower than this time last year but in line with expectations, it said. Shares in the company dived by as much as 8 per cent in early trading but recovered much of the loss to close down 2.4 per cent, or 5p, at 312?p.  The FTSE 100, which closed up 0.83 per cent at 5,529, was remarkably sanguine despite the latest Brussels summit ending yesterday morning without a convincing plan to tackle the crisis. British banks were the biggest gainers on the index. after the market had closed on Thursday the European Banking authority confirmed that the UK's banks would be able to meet new capital requirements without going cap in hand to the government or shareholders.  This was widely expected but nevertheless provided some comfort to skittish bank investors.  There was also a fillip for the banks after David Cameron saw off plans to introduce a Europe-wide tax on financial transactions, a Tobin Tax, which would have hit the City hard. Lloyds gained 1?p, or 6.5 per cent, to 26?p, followed by Barclays, up 9?p at 190?p and Royal Bank of Scotland, 1p higher at 22p. Shares in insurer aviva shrugged off analysts at Exane BNP Paribas who cut its rating to "neutral" amid concerns about its exposure to Italian sovereign debt, recovering to close up 2.26 per cent, or 7p, at 321?p.  There was some rare good news from the housing and construction sectors, which the Government is now banking on for economic growth. Shares in Bellway gained 20?p to 749p after the Britain's fourth-biggest housebuilder hailed the "remarkably resilient" interest from home hunters, saying reservations were 14 per cent higher compared to last year. Morgan Sindall also announced that it had won a ?103 million contract to refurbish affordable housing for Barnet council in London and that it had been selected as preferred development partner for a ?145 million regeneration project in Stockport. Shares gained 21p, or 3.8 per cent, to 572?p.  In times of economic distress, gold is widely seen as a safe haven for investors but miner african Barrick Gold is having some problems getting it out of the ground. Because of power cuts in Tanzania the FTSE 250-listed miner said that it would miss its annual production target. analysts at Investec cut their target price from 634p per share to 621p after the news. Shares dropped 11p to 509p.  Self-storage firm Big Yellow Group has a slightly differ 