 BLUSTERY weather and stormy seas certainly give the UK an advantage when it comes to growing the renewable energy industry.  Tens of thousands of offshore wind roles have been created in recent years and the sector is tipped to be a huge job creator in the coming decade. But where exactly will future green jobs come from and just how feasible are projections for growth?  Unemployment figures yesterday darkened the UK outlook, with a surge in jobless youths contributing to the biggest unemployment rise for almost two years. any talk of future jobs growth seems like fantasy when 2.5m Britons are still out of work.  a major report for The Daily Telegraph by the Work Foundation, however, argues that looming regulations - including a requirement that the UK reduce its carbon emissions by 34pc by 2020 - give the Government little choice but to invest in a low-carbon economy. Ministers have also pledged to obtain 15pc of the country's energy from renewables, against just 2.3pc in 2008, making the sector a high growth target.  The volume of "green" jobs created depends heavily on the level of government support, the Work Foundation argues.  But current estimates from trade body RenewableUK are optimistic - despite the current doom and gloom. The offshore wind industry could be worth ?8bn by 2020, generating 70,000 jobs, the organisation says. The entire renewables sector already employs 250,000 people and is worth ?33bn a year to the economy.  The Work Foundation report argues that the vast majority of low-carbon jobs, perhaps surprisingly, are unlikely to centre on high skills - at least in the short term.  Homes account for about a quarter of the UK's carbon emissions, meaning the "retrofitting" of existing buildings to cut their energy use is a government priority, report author Paul Sissons says. The bulk of jobs growth here will be in low to medium-skilled jobs, putting the technologies gleaned from high-skilled engineering into practice. These include plumbers, electricians, insulators and maintenance specialists to help make homes greener. as Will Day, low-carbon adviser at PricewaterhouseCoopers, puts it: "Britain does not need an army of Nobel-prize winning scientists to develop a low-carbon economy."  But Sissons warns that a number of young people entering the jobs market don't appear to be interested in the roles going, whic 