 From the spectacular Grand Canyon to the Las Vegas "Strip" and San Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge: there are few places brimming with more iconic imagery than California and western USa.  Through forests and deserts, this 15-day tour takes in the glamour of Los angeles, the charm of San Diego, and the snow-capped peaks of the Sierra Nevada.  TRaVEL DIaRY  Day 1  Fly to Los angeles. afternoon arrival and transfer to the four-star Marriott Hotel for one night.  Day 2  Enjoy a tour of this glamorous city, including Beverly Hills, Sunset Boulevard and Venice Beach. Later, you head to charming San Diego, staying two nights at the three-star Best Western Bayside.  Day 3  San Diego is the classic Californian city, set around a sweeping white-sand bay. after a city tour, you are free to experience San Diego's attractions. Visit the Maritime Museum with its historical ships, including HMS Surprise, a replica of an 18th-century frigate.  Day 4  Drive inland to Phoenix, passing through the Cleveland National Forest, descending towards the Mojave Desert to stay at the three-star Hampton Inn Glendale-West.  Day 5  Leaving Phoenix, you drive through the Sonora Desert, Oak Creek Canyon and on to the Grand Canyon. More than a mile deep, its grandeur is overwhelming, and you visit all the best viewing points. Your hotel is the three-star Canyon Plaza hotel.  Day 6  This morning, experience the Grand Canyon's colours in a truly magical display. From the Desert View Watchtower, have your final, lingering look before crossing into the vast Navajo Indian Reservation towards Monument Valley.  arriving a few hours before sunset, this is the best time to view the buttes - huge flat-topped towers of red sandstone rising dramatically from the surrounding desert - which include the iconic "Mittens" formations.  Tonight, you stay at the three-star Holiday Inn in nearby Kayenta.  Day 7  an early start to see the Glen Canyon Dam on the Colorado River. You cross into Utah and climb to almost 8,000ft, arriving at Bryce Canyon National Park. Created by countless years of erosion, Bryce Canyon presents a spectacular rocky landscape. You stay in the three-star Best Western Ruby's Inn.  Day 8  This morning, you continue on to Zion National Park with its petrified sand dunes, cliffs and gorges. Late afternoon, you arrive in Las Vegas, staying two nights at the four-star Tropicana Resort, situated in the vibrant heart of the Las Vegas "Strip".  Day 9  Explore the self-styled entertainment capital of the world. an almost surreal apparition seemingly growing out of the desert, it's where the world's most renowned sights, including cities such as Venice, Paris, and New York - and even the Egyptian Pyramids - have been recreated in incredible detail. You can even take a gondola trip in a hotel.  Day 10  You leave Las Vegas, through the barren Mojave Desert, skirting the famous Edwards air Force Base (landing site for 