 1 Who was anton du Beke's supposed dancing partner in the last series of Strictly Come Dancing? 2 Who has written Beyond the Crash, a book promising a unique insight into the current financial crisis? 3 Which statesman has been the fatherin-law of investment banker Marc Mezvinsky since July? 4 Who was the first man to renounce his peerage, just 20 minutes after the 1963 Peerage act came into force? 5 Who hosted the Camp David summit which brought peace between Egypt and Israel?  6 Who was notoriously photographed holding a banana at the 2008 Labour Party Conference? 7 Which former prime minister released the book More Than a Game about the early years of cricket, in 2007? 8 Which former minister upset the inhabitants of Montserrat when she criticised them for asking for more aid after they were devastated by a volcanic eruption? 9 Who was responsible for the film an Inconvenient Truth, which put the case for the existence of global warming? 10 Which cabinet minister has written biographies of William Pitt the Younger and William Wilberforce? 1 Who wrote about Captain John Joseph Yossarian in the novels Catch-22 and Closing Time? 2 Who was awarded the 2000 Whitbread Prize for best first novel for White Teeth? 3 Born Chloe ardelia Wofford, who was the first african-american writer to be awarded the Nobel Prize for literature, in 1993? 4 Which Nagasaki-born writer has seen his novels The Remains of the Day and Never Let Me Go turned into films? 5 The author of the Booker Prizenominated Number9Dream and Cloud atlas, which writer did Time magazine include in its 100 most influential people in the world in 2007? 6 Which prize-winning author wrote the libretto for Michael Berkeley's 2008 opera For You? 7 Which South african writer was awarded the 1991 Nobel Prize for literature because "her magnificent epic writing has - in the words of alfred Nobel - been of very great benefit to humanity"? 8 Who criticised his debut novel The Rachel Papers during interviews in 2010 for what he perceived to be its crudeness? 9 Who has acted in a production of Porgy and Bess, released an album called Calypso Lady, directed the film Down in the Delta, campaigned for civil rights as well as releasing more than 30 bestselling titles? 10 Which noted american writer was posthumously awarded the Bad Sex in Fiction award in 2007 for a passage in his novel The Castle in the Forest? 1 Who was inspired to found Band aid after seeing footage of an Ethiopian famine? 2 after Stuart Sutcliffe left the Beatles, who took over as the band's bassist? 3 Nicknamed "Gorgeous George", which jazzman, according to his Telegraph obituary, "leched, drank and blasphemed his way around the clubs and pubs of the British Isles and provided pleasure to the public for five decades"? 4 Which singer, raised on a sheep farm in Dorset, won the 2001 Mercury Music Prize for her album Stories From the City, Stories From the Sea? 5 Which opera singer helped pay for a railway station on the Welsh Highland Railway in his home town of Bontnewydd? 6 Which singer, winner of a Grammy for best female pop vocal in 2001 for her song I Try, was kicked offstage at a concert in Barbados in 2007 for uttering a banned profanity? 7 Which Northern Irish singersongwriter's 1968 album astral Weeks is a regular fixture in lists of the greatest albums of all time? 8 Which singer found acting on DoctorWho to be scarier than meeting the Pope? 9 Which folktonica artist from Norfolk came to prominence with the 1996 album Trailer Park? 10 Which singer-songwriter, whose hits include Luka and Tom's Diner, was the first artist to perform live as an avatar in the online game Second Life, while her voice played a key role in the algorithms behind the creation of MP3 files? 1 Who played Beattie in a number of advertisements for British Telecom? 2 Which comedian created the Cardiff cab driver Keith Barret? 3 Which former winner of the Irish Times National Debating Championship accompanied Griff Rhys Jones and Rory McGrath in a boat and on a trip to Ireland on television? 4 Who, with Guy Jenkin, has created the sitcoms Drop the Dead Donkey and Outnumbered? 5 Who played the titular Peter in the 1992 film Peter's Friends? 6 Which comedienne has developed a stage show about her bipolar disorder with singer-songwriter Judith Owen, which toured all 12 branches of The Priory? 7 Teenage Lauren Cooper and cockney grandmother Joanie Taylor are among the characters created by which comedienne and actress? 8 Which former psychiatric nurse has written the comedy series Getting On about the NHS for BBC4? 9 Which comedian published a book concerning family history, My Family and Other Strangers, in 2010? 10 Who toured a Remarkable Guide to the Orchestra? 1 Who presented a major series called aHistory of Britain for the BBC between 2000 and 2002? 2 Whose acerbic performances on Radio Four's The Moral Maze earned him the tag "the rudest man in Britain"? 3 Who wrote Must You Go? about her 33-year relationship with Harold Pinter? 4 The author of a Short History of Nearly Everything, who is the head of the Campaign to Protect Rural England? 5 Which former literary editor of The Daily Telegraph wrote The Suspicions of Mr Whicher, about a real-life Victorian murder mystery in Wiltshire? 6 Which historian and travel writer has written a number of prize-winning books, such as The Last Mughal, as well as presenting several television series on Indian history? 7 Which Marxist historian wrote The age of... tetralogy covering European history from 1789 to 1991? 8 Which historian's 2007 book austerity Britain was the first in a projected sixvolume history of post-war Britain? 9 Which historian advised Mrs Thatcher on foreign policy, has been Professor of International Relations, Bilkent University, ankara since 1997 and released a work on the Cold War in 2010? 10 Which former Telegraph editor was the first journalist to enter Port Stanley on its liberation from the argentines and has written a number of works on military history? 1 Describing the series as "Die Hard - with Fairies", who has written a number of books concerning teenage criminal mastermind artemis Fowl? 2 Which former Children's Laureate wrote the poem "These are the Hands" to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the NHS? 3 as well as portraying comic characters such as Swiss Toni on television, who has written a number of books concerning the teenage adventures of James Bond? 4 D?mons, physical manifestations of a person's soul in a parallel universe, appear in which writer's His Dark Materials trilogy? 5 Dani Harmer played Tracy Beaker on television, a character created by which writer? 6 The How to Train Your Dragon series of books are the works of which writer, who also created Hiccup the Viking? 7 The former head of the illustration department of the Royal College of art, who notably produced a number of illustrations of the works of Roald Dahl? 8 The Noughts and Crosses series, which uses a dystopia to explore racism, is the work of which writer? 9 Who threw away a career as a medievalist to become a writer, created Horrid Henry and is shortly to publish a novel about the Lewis Chessmen? 10 The National Theatre's hit play War Horse, set in the First World War, is based on a book by which former Children's Laureate? 1 Who was the "man in a white suit" who unseated Neil Hamilton in Tatton at the 1997 General Election? 2 Which writer, recently diagnosed with cancer, has written lengthy critiques of Bill Clinton, Henry Kissinger and Mother Teresa as well as the antireligious work God Is Not Great? 3 Who became the first female editor of The New Yorker in 1992 and subsequently founded the online magazine The Daily Beast? 4 One of the International Press Institute 