 Investors are being courted as never before by money managers. But with so many thousands of registered collective investment funds, information and analysis are even more important.  It was with this in mind that, exactly a year ago, Your Money launched a new column linked to our weekly video, Your Money Their Hands. Each week we interview a leading fund manager; then in the column we select highlights and ask the independent information provider Trustnet to check the track record of the manager in the spotlight.  To celebrate the first anniversary of "Why should I invest with you?", we have selected 10 managers from a list of 51 columns.  Evy Hambro  BlackRock Gold &amp; General  This fund reflects investors' appetite for gold and other precious metals. according to Trustnet, funds under management grew from ?800m in November 2008 to ?2.5bn in July 2010.  In one of the early interviews for this column, Mr Hambro was speaking as the price of gold hit a "sweet spot" of $1,265 an ounce. at that time many analysts were warning about a price bubble about to burst.  Mr Hambro took the opposite view. Given that the precious metal has since spiked above $1,900, he made this timely prediction: "You have to wait to see the gold price rise in a range of currencies before you can have a true bull market. We're starting to see that happen."  Guy de Blonay  Jupiter Financial Opportunities The long-term performance of this fund in late September 2010 was what investors dream of. The value of ?1,000 invested 10 years ago had grown to ?2,870.  Mr de Blonay, who comanages the fund with Philip Gibbs, correctly predicted that the public and political anger directed at the banks, and their role in the financial crisis, would "continue for some time to come". More importantly, he pointed out: "We've seen deterioration in the US and even in the UK economy. Some economies are struggling to recover, especially in the West."  Jim Leaviss  M&amp;G Global Macro Bond  at the end of 2010 there were significant worries about eurozone government bonds but nothing to predict the rolling financial crisis that has engulfed the single currency this summer.  Jim Leaviss therefore showed considerable foresight when he told the Telegraph he had already sold down his large investments in the eurozone sovereign debt market. and he added: "In places like Greece, bond investors might have to take a haircut."  M&amp;G's solution to the eurozone problems also remains pertinent. Mr Leaviss predicted: "For the eurozone to continue you need fiscal transfers from the rich core of Europe, and that really means Germany, out to the periphery."  Meanwhile, he is encouraging better communication with investors through a useful website, www.bondvigilantes.co.uk.  Trevor Greetham  Fidelity Multi asset Strategic  Trevor Greetham kicked off the new year with two solid investment tips. First, he was bullish about commodities, which enjoyed a strong first half.  But his best forecast concerned the UK and the housing market. He was talking about the possibility of the Bank of England extending its quantitative easing or asset purchase scheme by another ?50bn.  "You've got to remember," he argued, "that this big mountain of consumer debt we all talk about is secured against housing and if house prices start falling again I think the Bank will want to prop them up and they'll be printing money to try to do that." House prices fell by the most in 10 months in august.  Paul Mumford  Cavendish Opportunities  Paul Mumford's devotion to research in seeking undervalued investments is as rigorous as ever and he urged investors to do the same. "Every year," he explained, "I order all the annual and interim reports from the Financial Times. There are about six boxes. I refresh myself on companies I know and look for new companies, which is always an interesting trawling ground."  But he also has other sources of inspiration. Shortly after Prince William and Kate Middleton got engaged he spotted that it was possible to buy a ring in the style of their engagement ring for just ?34 using a tanzanite gemstone. So he added to his investment in the tiny ?11m african mining company Tanzanite One (now called Richland Resources). For a while at least the shares doubled in value.  Walter Price  RCM Technology Trust  Living in California, some of Walter Price's biggest investments are on his door step. and for a long time he had 4pc of the trust portfolio invested in the hugely successful apple Inc.  But when news emerged earlier in the year of the return of health problems for Steve Jobs, the driving force behind the company, Mr Price began "trimming" his investment.  His explanation was simple. "There's only one Steve Jobs when it comes to envisaging a product and being a perfectionist to develop something that feels good in your hand and works as well," he said. "He is one of a kind so I think they will probably slow down in the future."  Since that interview with Mr Price in March, Steve Jobs has resigned as apple's chief executive.  David von Simson  Qatar Investment  When David von Simson was interviewed in april, the arab uprisings were gaining traction and the Middle East was seen as an investment destination to avoid.  But he explained that the protests in the region fell into two categories: those countries with high unemployment and failing economies and those where there was a mismatch between the governing group and the majority of the population. "Neither circumstance applies remotely in Qatar," he said.  as well as advancing a robust investment argument for his fund, Mr von Simson also made one of the most astonishing predictions of the year. He said: "There is political risk everywhere. It may be that we have problems on the streets of London before long." So it came to pass.  Jerome Booth  ashmore Emerging Markets Local Currency Bond  Jerome Booth believes in putting his own money where he invests on  