 MINE OF INFORMaTION at least it is warm, I tell myself for the 100th time as I stand in the queue at Los angeles airport. It's so crowded that the queue winds its way out of the terminal, along the pavement and towards the taxi stand. Note to self: never travel from Los angeles during a Jewish holiday that involves families getting together.  I am going to three US universities to speak about my documentaries. Critiquing the environmental movement was not how I started out in journalism. a few years ago, while in Romania, I discovered people in a remote mining community were being denied the chance of jobs and a better life because of a campaign based on exaggerations by environmentalists.  When I started reporting the story I believed the usual narrative: mining companies are bad, greedy and destructive; environmentalists are good, true and pure; local people need outsiders to defend them. Nothing of that was true.  In 2006, together with my husband, the Tyrone journalist Phelim Mcaleer, I made a documentary entitled Mine Your Own Business. In it we follow an unemployed Romanian miner who was angry about how his opportunities had been destroyed by wealthy environmentalists. a sad tale.  LOT OF HOT aIR Our latest documentary, Not Evil Just Wrong, is a sceptical look at global warming hysteria. It examines how global warming solutions are not going to change the climate, which changes naturally, and will instead hold back the development of many people desperate to get out of poverty.  The Climategate emails controversy has led to a change in perceptions. For me it has meant getting a lot of invitations to discuss my work and show my documentaries. The invitations are generally from conservative student groups, and environmentalists turn up to disrupt.  and that's how it turns out at The College of Saint Benedict and Saint John's University in Minnesota where a protest has gathered, but is reasonably polite. Certainly not as nasty as the environmentalist who sent me an email recently saying that as myself and my husband loved pollution so much, he hoped our children would be born handicapped.  INCONCEIVaBLE IDEa The greatest trick of the environmental  